-------
Payment plan guide | Enterprise Knowledge Management
https://ekm/fo/fs/da/payment-negotiations-and-arrangements/payment-plan-guide

Payment plan guide

D-1 - Information on types of payment plans and preparing to organise payment plans.

D-1

This page provides details about negotiating payment of outstanding tax liability including:

information on payment in full and payment plans
how to prepare for organising a payment plan for a taxpayer
frequently asked payment questions
how to collect financial information and make a decision.

Payment in full should always be discussed as an option before setting up a payment plan.

Navigating payment plans

Use the Negotiating Payment Options

 to discuss payment options with the taxpayer and enter a payment plan.

Recent Updates
5/02/2026	Update to 'Managing ongoing obligations''.	SD-101538
Self Help
ATO website
Success alert:
Help the caller go to the page while on the phone.

This is a chance to educate the caller about self-help options, which may lead to:

them using self-service in the future, and
a better experience for them.

Taxpayers can obtain more information about Payment plans

 from the ATO website.

Information alert:
Use our self-service any time - it's easy, free and fast. Refer to Self-help services.


Checks
PORO

Establish PORO,

 if required.

Before you begin

You may receive calls from taxpayers with overdue debts who want us to know they have:

received a letter from the ATO about their overdue debt
recently lodged a form and are due to receive a refund that will pay some or all of their debt.

Action the enquiry using below table.

Where...	Then...

the taxpayer advises they have lodged a form that will clear all their debt, and
there is a form in suspense review item
	

update the Siebel debt case Next Review Date for 30 days. If the refund has not finalised by then, the taxpayer will need to call back and request for more time.




the taxpayer advises they will receive a refund that will clear only some of the debt

	

continue negotiating.



the taxpayer has received a notification, or
the debt is from an activity statement with the lodgment method of 'STP RPTR finalised'
	

this applies to Lodgment Reminder letter.

Refer to Activity statements - Lodgment Reminder Strategy

 for more information.

Scenarios
Create a payment plan online

Taxpayers can create payment plans via self-serve options:

individuals and sole traders - Online services

businesses - Online services for business

registered agents - Online services for agents

ATO online payment plan estimator.


The taxpayer will not meet the eligibility criteria to make a payment plan online if:

the account has
a debt less than $1 or greater than $200,000
an active legal action account
one or more of the following active legal action accounting treatments, judgment accounting treatments, or suppressions
Insolvency
Dispute
Legal
Closed account
Taxpayer identity risk
Lockdown
Significant Global Entity (SGE) or Potential SGE
Non-Deductible Super Fund
PAYG withholding (PAYGW) Lodgment
Critical Response
the first payment is not scheduled within
7 calendar days of the interaction (date of actioning request), or
14 days if direct debit
the upfront payment and duration exceed the lower offer in the Data Driven Insights for Payment Plans gadget
likelihood of a payment plan being paid in full within 24 months is not 50% or greater (as per Data Driven Insights for Payment Plans gadget).

To make a payment plan online, the taxpayer needs a myGov account linked to the ATO.

Only a card holder can set up a credit/debit card direct debit payment plan. This functionality is not available to Tax/BAS agents via Online services for agents or by calling the ATO.

View PRNs online

Taxpayers can view their payment reference number (PRN) online

 or by using the ATO app at any stage during the term of the payment plan.

They must use the correct PRN to ensure their payments are allocated to the correct account and avoid the payment plan defaulting.

Managing ongoing obligations
Ongoing obligations

If taxpayers are having trouble meeting their ongoing obligations, make sure they know How to pay

 and find out if they could benefit from:

making voluntary or pre-payments

 for Not Yet Due amounts
setting aside funds in a tax specific bank account
seeking professional advice to assist in managing debts.


When negotiating a payment plan, consider if the plan should be tailored to the taxpayer’s circumstances. This could include:

reducing payment plan instalments when the taxpayer has an activity statement obligation or other expense due
consideration of seasonal impacts on some taxpayer’s income
instalments do not need to be equal across the life of the plan.
Voluntarily enter PAYG Instalments system

To prevent taxpayers from getting an income tax debt when lodging their first business income tax return, they may volunteer to enter the PAYG Instalments (PAYGI) system. If they are having trouble paying their activity statement debts, it is likely they are not preparing for their income tax debt.

You can assist taxpayers with how to enter the PAYGI system manually or voluntarily

 using information on the ATO website.

Individuals including sole traders can:

use the PAYGIs calculator tool

 to help them estimate their PAYGIs
manage PAYGIs

 through manual entry online (via their myGov account linked to the ATO).
Voluntary payments and pre-payments

Taxpayers do not need to wait for a bill from the ATO to make a payment. They can:

make pre-payments at any time and as often as they like to make it easier to manage their tax, and
enter a payment plan for Not Yet Due amounts.

Taxpayers only need a PRN to make a pre-payment

 using any of the payment options on the ATO website.

The ATO will hold pre-payments unless the taxpayer requests a refund.

Voluntary payments for Income Contingent Loans for higher education

Payment plans must not be entered in ICP for Income Contingent Loan accounts (eg. HELP, SFSS). Compulsory repayments are made through the income tax system. Taxpayers can make voluntary payments themselves, refer to Voluntary repayments.


Guiding payment principles
We should always:
set the expectation that lodgment and payment obligations are to be met on or before the due date
establish if a taxpayer can pay in full (PIF). If a taxpayer cannot PIF, we must establish when they can PIF.
We expect payments in the shortest possible timeframe. Payment plans agreed to should reflect this.
Remission of general interest charge (GIC) is not an entitlement. GIC will generally only be remitted where the taxpayer had no control over late payment.
We will take the taxpayer’s compliance history into account when considering a payment plan or GIC remission. This includes:
lodgments
defaulted payment plans, and
previous GIC remissions.
Incorporate future liabilities and obligations into our conversations.
Payment plan types
Payment plan type
	When and how to use them


PIF/extension of time to pay

	
Taxpayers who are unable to PIF by the due date may only need an extension of time to pay in full.
Enter a standard payment plan with a lump sum payment, generally no more than 30 calendar days, based on the taxpayer's circumstances.



Standard payment plan

	

In a standard payment plan:

the whole tax debt is paid off over a certain period of time via agreed instalments
instalment amounts do not need to be equal across the life of the plan
there should not be a balloon payment at the end of the payment plan, unless a specific event is occurring
there may be circumstances where you should consider a concurrent payment plan.




Interim payment plan

	

Debts referred to an external collection agency (ECA) are not eligible for interim payment plans.

Payment plan is for less than the full debt amount. (e.g. the debt owing is $50,000 but the interim payment plan may only be for $10,000).

The plan should be no longer than one month to allow the taxpayer to:

provide additional information

make outstanding lodgments, if the taxpayer has multiple outstanding lodgments, advise them to

lodge all documents together

call to ensure the payment plan does not default, or

wait for a decision on finance.

You must explain to the taxpayer they will receive a payment plan letter for the full outstanding balance.




Review payment plan

	
Should be no longer than a period of 6 months and be used when there is a specific event occurring that will alter the taxpayers' ability to pay their debt.
Payment plan should be entered for the total debt and include regular payments with a lump sum payable on the date of the review, while waiting for the specific event to occur (e.g. sale of an asset).
Specific events must be established, rather than something that may potentially happen. If no specific event can be established:
consider a tailored standard payment plan
consult your coach if needed.

If the taxpayer is paying by direct debit, advise that all instalments including the balloon payment will be paid by direct debit. If they do not want this, cancel the final direct debit instalment.

Debt referred to external collection agency

Taxpayers may be referred to an ECA for collection of their outstanding debt.

Check if the taxpayer has been referred to an ECA.


If yes, and the taxpayer wants to discuss a payment plan, follow Negotiating Payment Options

 to decide if it is appropriate to negotiate an arrangement.

Payment discussion

Payment in full should always be discussed as an option before setting up a payment plan.

Payment plans should:

be tailored to consider the taxpayer's circumstances
recognise the taxpayer's ongoing lodgments and payment obligations
include all debts in all accounts (including debts not yet due, but visible on the account).

Discussing payment with the taxpayer as per below.

Question
	Reason



Can the taxpayers pay in full today?

	
To ensure a level playing field the expectation is for all taxpayers to lodge and pay on time.
When taxpayers do not pay on time they may receive an unfair financial advantage over those that do pay on time.
Taxpayers that fail to pay on time may be using funds to unfairly grow their business or investment portfolio.
We ask the taxpayers if they can pay in full today to:
set the expectation of payment in full
influence future behaviour to improve on time payment of tax liabilities.



If payment in full today is not possible, how much can the taxpayers pay today?

	
When taxpayers cannot pay in full our expectation is that they will repay the debt in the shortest possible timeframe.
Negotiating an upfront payment will help the taxpayer get back on track as soon as possible.
We should establish why the taxpayer could not pay on time and if they are planning for future payment obligations.
Taxpayers unable to make an upfront payment may not be planning for future lodgment and payment obligations or prioritising other debts.
We ask the taxpayer how much they can pay today to:
reinforce the expectation of payment in full
educate the taxpayer that GIC is accruing on the outstanding liability
influence future behaviour and improve on time payment of tax liabilities.



When will the debt be paid?

	
This allows us to reinforce our expectation of payment in the shortest possible timeframe.
This is an opportunity to educate the taxpayer about the impacts of GIC on their debt.
We ask when the taxpayer can pay the debt to:
establish the taxpayer’s willingness and ability to pay the debt
educate the taxpayer that the longer they take to pay the more interest they will need to pay
influence future behaviour and improve on time payment of tax liabilities.
Multiple payment plans

Where multiple payment plans are entered at the same time (to address multiple debts), and one will finish earlier than the other, consider varying the remaining instalments.

Instalments should be varied to the capacity the taxpayer has proposed.

Influencing taxpayer behaviour

Taxpayers may enter into payment plans to manage ongoing cash flow issues. They can be influenced to change their behaviour to ensure future payment will be made on time. Some ways of doing this include:

arranging voluntary payments made to the ATO which remain as a credit until lodgment
depositing GST and Income Tax Withholding into separate accounts as money is received
educate the taxpayer that GIC is accruing on outstanding liabilities.
Serviceability check point

The purpose of the serviceability check is to establish if the taxpayer is likely to be able to meet the proposed payment plan. We do not need to collect any specific financial information as part of the serviceability discussion.

You could ask questions such as:

"Are you currently working or earning regular income from a business?"
"How have you decided the amount you can pay?"
"Have you considered any other ongoing expenses when deciding the amount you can repay?"
"Will you be in a position to pay your next activity statement on time?".
Collect financial information

When collecting financial information from a taxpayer in most cases we do not need a detailed breakdown of the taxpayer's income or expenses. If the taxpayer can provide their total income and total expenses, we can calculate their surplus funds by subtracting their expenses from their income.

Staff should not provide financial advice.

When to collect financial information

We collect financial information from taxpayers based on their compliance history, which may present a greater risk of default. This includes taxpayer that have had:

2 or more cancelled/defaulted/refused payment arrangements in the last year
cancelled arrangements only include taxpayer-initiated cancellations where the taxpayer has called to cancel an existing arrangement - these taxpayers may have escalating debts or may not be planning for all ongoing financial commitments
review Siebel notes for any refused payment arrangements and consider the reasons for previous refusals in your decision making
warnings provided in the last 6 months
these taxpayers are likely to have progressed within the debt pipeline and stronger or firmer action is imminent
review Siebel activities and notes or the ECP interactions timeline for evidence of verbal warnings or correspondence that includes warnings
blue reminder letters are not warnings and should not be included
the debt or timeframe offered is above your authorisation
when escalating for approval, you need to make a recommendation whether the payment plan should be approved or refused

by collecting financial information the approving officer will have more relevant information available to them to make a decision. This will lead to

faster resolution
a better taxpayer experience.


Staff actioning firmer and stronger action should use their discretion and it may be appropriate to gather financial information where an increased risk applies. Such as:

taxpayers with escalating debt

profiling and discussions with the taxpayers, to indicate further information is required to make the best decision for recovery action.

Tax Agents and financial counsellors

Tax professionals or financial counsellors/advisors have access to more detailed information and are qualified professionals that assess the financial health of their taxpayers. When talking to one of these professionals you may not need to collect full financial information. If the professional is advising what the taxpayer can afford in an arrangement you should discuss with the professional:

what information they have considered when establishing this payment proposal
have they looked at the taxpayer's total income and expenses
will this proposal have the taxpayer repay the debt in the shortest possible time
will the taxpayer have some funds left over for any emergencies
is the taxpayer/agent aware that GIC is accruing on the debt and the longer the payment plan the more GIC the taxpayer will need to pay
have they recently completed a budget or prepared a financial report, are the figures used recent or are they using old figures?

You should add a note

 with what information you are using to make your decision. If the information provided by the professional are not recent or you believe they are incomplete, then collect financial information as per normal.

Bank details

The taxpayers should make an upfront payment based on their current bank balance. If the taxpayers have funds in their bank account but will not make an upfront payment, you should establish why they cannot make an upfront payment.

If the taxpayers have available funds in their bank to pay the debt in full, you should establish why they cannot pay in full and educate them on the implications of GIC accruing on their account and the current GIC rate.

 Taxpayers may have many reasons why they cannot use available funds to repay their debt in full and staff should not provide financial advice. A payment plan may still be the best option for the ATO and taxpayer.

Some taxpayers may have an overdraft facility with their bank. The overdraft facility is a type of loan or credit facility provided to the taxpayers by their financial institution. The fees and interest associated with the overdraft facility may be lower than the GIC the ATO charges. If the taxpayers have access to an overdraft facility you should educate them on the implications of GIC accruing on their account and the current GIC rate.


Income

The taxpayer should consider all their sources of income.

This should include:

the total income they earn from employment and business earnings (gross profits or gross income)
any welfare payments, and
any investment income such as dividends or rent from investment properties.

We ask about taxpayers' income to decide how they will be able to make ongoing payments.

Expenses

The taxpayer should consider all their expenses. This would typically include items such as:

rent or mortgage payments
household utilities such as water, electricity and gas
loan and credit card repayments
car and transport costs.

It is important to remember we do not need the taxpayer to provide a breakdown of all these expenses. If taxpayers need assistance to calculate this, consider using the Capacity to Pay

 macro for individuals or the Business Capacity to Pay

 macro when a business doesn’t know their total operating expenses.

Collecting the taxpayer’s expenses allows us to estimate the taxpayers' available funds by subtracting the expenses from their income. If a taxpayer has no available funds a payment plan is likely to default and the taxpayer may need to reconsider their income and expense to ensure they have funds to meet the proposed payment plan.

Assessing available funds

We would expect the taxpayer to pay a substantial portion of their available funds to address the outstanding debt. You can use your own discretion when considering if the taxpayer is offering enough of their available funds. We want taxpayers to make payment of their debt a priority, equal to other debts they may have. An offer to use 70% or more of the taxpayer's available funds to address the debt would be looked upon favourably.

It is important to remember that the 70% figure is a guide only and should be used with regard for all the taxpayer's circumstances. Where a taxpayer is not paying a substantial portion of available funds, a payment plan may still be the best option to collect the debt based on the taxpayer's circumstances.

Establishing the percentage of the available surplus the taxpayer is allocating towards a payment plan.

Available surplus x 0.70 = 70% of the available income.

E.g. a taxpayer has an available surplus of $8,500 per month. Using the above we can establish the following:

$8,500 x 0.70 = $5,950.

Assets

When discussing assets with the taxpayer we want to establish if the taxpayer can borrow against the asset or sell the asset to repay the debt.

If the taxpayer owns their home or has a mortgage on the home, they may have equity in the property that they can use to borrow money from a financial institution and repay the ATO debt. We can educate the taxpayer on the current GIC rate

 and advise the taxpayer that they may receive a lower rate of interest at a financial institution.

Taxpayers may also have other assets, such as collectables, that they may be able to sell and pay their ATO debt. This is another opportunity to educate the taxpayer on the implications of GIC accruing on their account and the current GIC rate.


Collecting information about a taxpayer's assets can provide:

us with insights into their overall financial position
options that the taxpayer had not considered.
Liabilities

Liabilities refers to any other debts the taxpayer may owe. We use this to assess the taxpayer's financial health. If a taxpayer has debts other than their ATO debt, ensure they have included any repayments in their total expenses.

When talking to employers, establish if their employee entitlements are up to date.

Some taxpayers may feel that it is normal to have ongoing amounts of debt. These taxpayers represent an increased risk as they are:

more likely to
default on a payment plan
have aged or escalating debts
have an increased likelihood or becoming insolvent or bankrupt.

Staff should not provide financial advice. You should educate the taxpayers about GIC accruing on their account, the taxpayers should seek independent financial advice.

Taxpayer questions the reason for asking for financial information

If the taxpayer questions why the ATO asks for this information, you could advise the taxpayer we use this information to:

ensure the right payment options are discussed
help the taxpayer get back on track as soon as possible.

The ATO requests this information to ensure the taxpayers can maintain the proposed payment plan whilst balancing other ongoing financial commitments. It is important that whilst we expect the taxpayers to pay in the shortest possible time, we do not want to place an undue burden on them that may push them into hardship. A payment plan is about balancing the needs of the taxpayer with the expectation of the community that everyone pays their fair share.

Taxpayer refuses to provide information

If the taxpayer refuses to provide information you may want to advise them:

the requested information is required to ensure the right payment options are negotiated
without the information you will be unable to negotiate a payment plan with them.

A payment plan is not a right and as outlined in law administration practice statement PS LA 2011/14

 - General debt collection powers and principles. Taxpayers must provide all necessary information within agreed timeframes.

If a taxpayer does not have all the information required on hand, additional time can be granted for the taxpayer to call back. Where a taxpayer refuses to provide the requested information, it is likely not appropriate to grant an arrangement, as:

they are not showing a willingness to address their tax debt
their request will not have sufficient information to assess if they will be able to
maintain the payment plan instalments
address any future debts.
Taxpayers' financial information shows they could pay significantly more

If the taxpayers' financial information indicates they could pay significantly more towards their ongoing instalments, you should advise them, the:

expectation is for payment in the shortest possible time. Unpaid tax is not a loan or line of credit
longer they take to pay, the more GIC they will need to pay.

If the taxpayer is aware, a payment plan may still be the best option. However, you should consider the following before making a decision:

why can't the taxpayer pay more of the available funds

are there other options available to recover the debt sooner

is there a garnishee source? How much could we recover from this

has the taxpayer recently received warnings, such as a Firmer Action Warning Letter (FAWL), and has firmer or stronger action started?

Discussing tax debts
Super guarantee charge (SGC) debts

SGC debts must be paid off first in any payment plan. If a tax debt was relatively small, you have the discretion under PS LA 2011/20

 - Payment and credit allocation to allocate the first payment to clear the tax debt before the SGC debt. You must consider each case on its individual merits.

When employers' do not meet their obligations to pay their employee's superannuation, this impacts the employees' ability to provide for themselves in retirement. The ATO takes non-payment of superannuation very seriously and penalties apply to employers that do not pay on time. To avoid penalties and interest, employers should pay employees' obligations in full and prepare to meet future obligations. Taxpayers can refer to the ATO website for more SGC details.


Income Tax

Income taxes are used to fund essential services, including our health system, defence, education, transport and roads, public safety and support payments for those in need.

Taxpayers are required to pay income tax with money they earn from employment, business profits, pensions, government payments, investments and foreign income.

PAYGW debts

PAYGW is money that:

has been withheld from employees' wage to cover the employees' anticipated income tax obligation
should not be used to support business cashflow.

These amounts are to ensure adequate funding is available to deliver critical services to the community. Taxpayers can refer to the ATO website for more information about PAYGW.


GST debts

GST helps fund essential services, such as health, education, infrastructure, environmental protection and housing. Taxpayers registered for GST collect the GST on behalf of the government and these amounts should be paid in full to the ATO.

Taxpayers can prepare for future activity statements by:

putting funds aside in a separate bank account, or
making voluntary pre-payment to the ATO.

Taxpayers can learn more about GST

 on the ATO website.

If a GST debt exists, you can check what accounting method is being used to report GST. If the taxpayer is accounting for GST on a cash basis:

ask the taxpayer what they have done with these funds, as they have advised they have already collected the GST for their services
advise the taxpayer
this money does not belong to them
they are collecting this money on behalf of the government
it should not be going to pay other debts or expenses.
GST accounting methods

There are 2 GST accounting methods:

cash method
taxpayers must report and pay GST in the BAS period they have received payment for a sale or service
if they receive a part payment only, they need to report GST on that part payment in the BAS period they received it
accruals method
taxpayers account for GST payable in the BAS period the tax invoice for sale is issued, or where any part payment is made, whichever occurs first
they may have to report GST for a sale before receiving payment.

For more details on GST accounting methods and eligibility refer to GST accounting methods - overview and eligibility.


How to check GST accounting methods

Go to Client home in ICP and select:

Taxpayer details
View additional details
Additional taxpayer details.
Source of debt

If the taxpayer does not understand why they have a debt, a discussion about the possible cause may assist them to understand their circumstances and enable better tax planning decisions to avoid a future tax bill shock.

Use Account explanation

 to help the taxpayer find out why they have a debt.

ATO processed known amounts

The taxpayer may have received a letter as part of the Lodgment Reminder Strategy (LRS) pilot. Further information about the LRS pilot is available on the Activity Statement - Lodgment Reminder Strategy.

 If the taxpayer does not lodge their activity statement by the due date in the letter, we add the amounts we have on record to their Integrated Client Account (ICA), this is known internally as Processed known amounts (PKA).

PKA are amounts recorded from STP reporting that will pre-fill into an activity statement with status Dispatched (DSP) in IPS.

PKA will:

pre-fill the activity statement and appear as a debt on the taxpayer's ICA
also process amounts for PAYGI amount option and GST instalments (GSTI) if applicable.

PKA can only apply to employers lodging via STP starting from 1 September 2023. Large PAYGW withholders are not part of the LRS and will not receive PKA treatment.

Campaigns

These can be factsheets, emails, letters or SMS to taxpayers. Refer to:

Siebel - verify outbound correspondence items

Communications Main Inventory.


For specific campaign information, refer to Outbound Dialler Campaigns - Debt.


-------






-------
Account explanation | Enterprise Knowledge Management
https://ekm/fo/nn/048/account-explanation


Account explanation

Information about when a taxpayer requests an account explanation.

Last published 15 July 2024

Favourite Notes Collapse all 
Background

This page provides information to assist a taxpayer with an account explanation.

Recent updates

15/07/2024

	Update to 'Taxpayer requests assistance over the phone' section.	SD-83108
Self Help
ATO website
Success alert:
Help the caller go to the page while on the phone.

This is a chance to educate the caller about self-help options, which may lead to:

the taxpayer using self-service in the future, and
a better taxpayer experience.

Advise the taxpayer of available Online options. Taxpayers can:

check most account balances and transactions
view recent correspondence
update and manage their registrations, and
lodge and pay their tax.

More information can be found on the ATO website for:

Individuals and Sole traders, refer to Online services for individuals and sole traders

Tax agents, refer to

Tax agents


Online services for agents


View and print an account balance

 in Online services for agents

Business, refer to Businesses

 (includes information about Online services for business).

Information alert:
Use our self-service any time - it's easy, free and fast. Refer to Self-help services.


Scenarios
Payment plan shows overdue when paid online

It can take up to 14 days (from the payment plan instalment due date) to update the instalment status. Advise the taxpayer they can check their Transaction list in ATO Online to confirm if the payment has been received.

To access the Transaction list:

log into myGov

select ATO from the list of services

from the menu, select

Tax

Accounts, then

Summary

select the

link that displays the account name, and

Payment plan indicator to display the relevant payment transaction.

In Detail
Taxpayer requests assistance over the phone

Go to the relevant link below to help the taxpayer:

Account explanations - ICP accounts


Online services for agents - Accounts summary


FBT account explanation


Study and training loans


Superannuation account explanation


Foreign investment program debt collection


Debts on hold (uneconomical non-pursued debt)


-------



-------
Activity statements - Lodgment Reminder Strategy | Enterprise Knowledge Management
https://ekm/fo/fs/sbsc/activity-statements-and-payg-instalments/lodgment-reminder-strategy/activity-statements-lodgment-reminder-strategy


Activity statements - Lodgment Reminder Strategy

Information on the Lodgment Reminder Strategy (LRS) for employers.

Last published 2 March 2026

Favourite Notes Collapse all 
Background

This page contains information on the Lodgment Reminder Strategy (LRS) for employers.

Recent updates
02/03/2026	Updates throughout the page.	SD-102334
Self Help
ATO website
Success alert:
Help the taxpayer to go to the page while on the phone.

This is a chance to educate the taxpayer about self-help options, which may lead to:

using self-service in the future, and
a better taxpayer experience.

Taxpayers can obtain more information from the ATO website on:

Lodgment reminders


ATO PAYG withholding pre-fill for activity statements


Single Touch Payroll


STP and activity statements.


Information alert:
Use our self-service any time - it's easy, free and fast. Refer to Self-help services.


In Detail
About LRS

Employers report employees' payroll information and PAYG withholding (PAYGW) amounts to us each pay day through STP. Employers can meet their PAYGW reporting obligations through STP. We will use that same data to help prepare their activity statements.

We have introduced the LRS for Small and Medium employers. This is to ensure that if an employer does not lodge their activity statement, amounts we have on record that are due and payable are added to their Integrated Client Account (ICA). These amounts include:

PAYGW amounts reported through STP (Pay and Adjustment events only), and
if applicable
GST instalment (GSTI) amount, and/or
PAYG instalment (PAYGI) (amount method only).

Employers will be:

issued a reminder letter, and
provided with a timeframe to lodge and correct their activity statements.

If they do not lodge their activity statement by the due date in the letter, we:

will consider they have no corrections to report to the amounts we have on record
will add the amounts we have on record to their ICA, this is known internally as Processing Known Amounts (PKA)
may also finalise their activity statement. This will depend on whether there are additional obligations the employer must report in their activity statement.

Taxpayers selected for this treatment may call:

for an explanation of their reminder letter or ICA balance, or
to seek support with lodgment and payments. 
STP and activity statements

We are expanding the use of STP data into activity statements to allow businesses to tell us once.

From July 2023, we pre-fill PAYGW labels W1 and W2 in electronic activity statements.

These changes commenced for:

monthly PAYG withholders from the July 2023 activity statement
quarterly PAYG withholders from the September 2023 quarter activity statement.

For more information about PAYGW pre-fill for activity statements, go to STP and activity statements - ATO PAYGW pre-fill.


Lodgment reminder

At the start of each financial year additional employers may be added to the treatment population.

For selected employers, we will remind them to lodge their activity statement if:

it is not lodged and considered late, and
PAYGW has been reported via STP for the period.
Information alert:
Employers may have concessional or deferred activity statement due dates. These are taken into consideration when issuing the reminder letter.

The first activity statement we will remind employers to lodge, if selected will be:

July for monthly PAYG withholders
September for quarterly PAYG withholders.

Thereafter, employers will continue to receive reminders if they do not lodge their subsequent activity statements.

Warning alert:
Candidates selected cannot opt out of receiving lodgment reminders. However, if they lodge on time, they will not receive a reminder.

The reminder letter will provide a summary of amounts the ATO has on record for the activity statement. This may include:

PAYGW amounts the employer reported through STP (labels W1 and W2), and
if applicable, any
GSTI amount (label G21) the ATO has pre-filled, and/or
PAYGI amount (label T7) the ATO has pre-filled (amount method).

Employers should check that the PAYGW amounts we have on record are correct and complete.

Most PAYGW payments made to employees that are subject to PAYGW are reported through STP. However, some payments cannot be reported through STP

 or are not mandatory, for example:

it is not mandatory to report voluntary withholding arrangements for contractors through STP
amounts reported at labels W3 or W4, such as no ABN withholding, cannot be reported through STP.

To ensure the correct PAYGW liability is posted to the taxpayers ICA, employers need to make sure they include all of their PAYGW amounts in their activity statement including amounts reported through STP.

Reminder templates

The reminder letter will outline to the taxpayer the action we will take if we do not receive their activity statement by the date listed in their letter. There are 2 different reminder letters taxpayers can receive:

AS STP all amounts known

this letter is issued when the ATO has a record of all amounts included in the taxpayers activity statement: PAYGW, GSTI, PAYGI (amount method)
employers who receive this letter only need to lodge if they need to report a correction. We will use amounts we have on record to finalise their activity statement
AS STP some amounts known

this letter is issued when there are additional obligations the taxpayer has yet to report, such as
GST
PAYGI rate method
luxury car tax (LCT)
wine equalisation tax (WET)
fuel tax credits (FTC)
fringe benefits tax instalment (FBTI)
employers who receive this letter must lodge to complete their reporting obligation.

Staff can view the lodgment reminder letter as follows:

go to the Summary tab on the Client Consolidated View (CCV) in Siebel
view the letter attached to an activity with

Capability: Active Compliance
Category: Treatment
Type: Prompt
Description: Document Identification Number (DIN) for related activity statement.

From November 2023, agents acting on behalf of employers will be able to access an updated on-demand activity statement lodgment report in Online services for agents (OSfA) to see:

which of their taxpayers have been issued a reminder
the proposed next action and timing.
Lodgment not received

If the employer does not lodge by the date stated in the reminder, the:

ATO will

consider the amounts we have on record are correct, and
add these amounts to the ICA, subject to any deferral of lodgments applied after the letter has been issued
activity statement will
be finalised in IPS (lodgment medium STP Rptr Finalised) and considered lodged, where we have a record of all amounts on the activity statement
remain overdue and outstanding, where there are other amounts yet to be reported on the activity statement (IPS Milestone AURA). These other amounts
may include labels for
GST using Full or Simpler Reporting
PAYGIs using the rate method
FTC
FBTI
WET
LCT
still require taxpayer lodgment.

Failure to lodge on time penalties may be applied to outstanding activity statements. GIC will apply to any amounts overdue and is calculated from when the amount is due and payable.

Making corrections

Even if we have added amounts to the employer's ICA, they can correct these via their activity statement.

To make a correction, where the activity statement:

is finalised in ATO systems, the taxpayer can revise

 it to correct PAYGW mistakes
has not been finalised,

the taxpayer can edit the PAYGW labels when they lodge
the PAYGW amount will not update to include any late STP reports submitted after amounts have been added
when the taxpayer edits an amount, they must enter the entire obligation (not the adjustment)
the taxpayer's ICA will be updated to reflect the correct amount
if the employer submits a late STP report that impacts their PAYG withholding in the period, they may need to include it in the activity statement. See Correcting information reported through STP.


Normal rules apply for:

corrections or revisions to an activity statement

requests for a lodgment and/or payment deferral.

LRS coverage

For the financial year:

2023-24, we piloted the LRS with 3,000 randomly selected small and medium employers

2025-26, we selected 5,000 small & medium employers to be treated. These were selected based on their previous lodgment performance

2026-27 onward, we will review the employer population each year and may select additional employers to add to the treatment population.

On Demand Activity Statement Lodgment Report (ASLPRT)

From November 2023, agents will be able to access an updated on-demand activity statement lodgment report in OSfA.

The ASLPRT will only display for Activity statement DIN's:

whilst the AS Form/DIN remains not lodged, and
a reminder is issued to the taxpayer. 

Once the activity statement is lodged and finalised, it will no longer be displayed on the ASLRPT report.

If the taxpayer experiences issues with the on demand report, refer to Online services for agents troubleshooting.


LRS FAQs

See below for frequently asked questions (FAQs) for the LRS. If you cannot answer the taxpayer's question with the information on this page, contact your support officer.

Why did I or my taxpayer get a reminder letter?
I did not receive the reminder, where can I see it?
How does the ATO have a record of my activity statement amounts?
Why do I have an amount overdue on my account when I did not lodge my BAS?
Can I have more time to lodge my BAS to respond to the reminder?
I did not see the reminder in time, and I need to change the PAYGW amount. How do I do that?
Can I carry forward the PAYGW amount I need to correct?
Will there be a penalty if I need to fix my STP reports and this impacts my PAYGW, after the ATO added amounts onto my ICA?
What will the taxpayer see on ATO online services if they do not respond to the reminder?
I have not yet lodged my activity statement, and on ATO Online there is ATO Processed displayed next to the PAYGW amount. What do I need to do to correct PAYGW amount as it is incorrect?
Why has an activity statement been finalised without the taxpayers permissions?
Can the taxpayer vary their PAYGI and GSTI if they lodge a BAS where amounts have been added to the ICA?
How do I work out if I need to report a PAYGW correction in both my BAS and STP?
What payment support options are available if I cannot afford to pay?
Can I opt-out of the LRS?
Why did I or my taxpayer get a reminder letter?

Taxpayers will be issued a reminder letter if they have:

told us through STP that they have a PAYGW obligation, and
not lodged their activity statement for that period.

The reminder letter:

outlines the amounts we have on record and the action we will take
provides an opportunity for taxpayers to review and lodge if they need to correct or report amounts. 
I did not receive the reminder, where can I see it?

Taxpayers or their agents should check their correspondence preferences

 are up-to-date. Reminders are issued as per the Outbound preference in ICP. The reminder may be sent to the:

agents digital mailbox in OSfA
taxpayers' Communication history in their online service, or
postal address we have on record for the taxpayer.

Where an employer is a non-individual entity and the reminder has been sent electronically, it will only be available via Online services for business (OSB) or OSfA. 

If a taxpayer:

is set up in online services (OSB, OSfA, Online services for individuals), the reminder will be sent to their Communication history
does not have online services, the reminder may be sent by post.

If the taxpayer advises they did not receive the reminder:

advise them to update their Communication preference and address in online services
direct them to locate the reminder in the Communication history in their online service.

If a taxpayer:

does not have access to online services,
assist them to set up online services, and
direct them to locate the reminder in their Communication history
wants a copy of the reminder,
print a copy of the letter and post to the address the taxpayer has advised, and
update the taxpayers address in ICP (if required).
How does the ATO have a record of my activity statement amounts?

We have a record of PAYGW taxpayers that have reported through STP. These amounts are reported at PAYGW labels W1 and W2 on the activity statement.

We also have a record of any GSTI amounts or PAYGI amounts (amount method) that we have pre-filled into a taxpayers activity statement.

Why do I have an amount overdue on my account when I did not lodge my BAS?

We will always send the taxpayer or their agent a reminder letter before adding amounts to their accounts. If a taxpayer has not responded to our reminder to lodge their activity statement, we will:

consider they have no corrections to report to the amounts we have on record outlined in their reminder, and
add these amounts to their ICA.

Where:

there are no other amounts included on the activity statement, we will use amounts we have on record to complete the activity statement and finalise in ATO systems
the taxpayer must report additional obligations, the activity statement will remain not lodged and outstanding.
Can I have more time to lodge my BAS to respond to the reminder?

Taxpayers may request a lodgment and/or payment deferral for their activity statement (if applicable). Existing lodgment and payment due date rules still apply. Exceptional circumstances may be considered for deferral on or after the due date.

I did not see the reminder in time, and I need to change the PAYGW amount. How do I do that?

See Making corrections above.

Can I carry forward the PAYGW amount I need to correct?

There are provisions to carry forward PAYGW subject to some limits, where a correction is made to PAYGW amounts previously reported through STP.

Go to Correcting information reported through STP.


Will there be a penalty if I need to fix my STP reports and this impacts my PAYGW, after the ATO added amounts onto my ICA?

The taxpayers primary source of data should be their software and payroll records. They should feel confident to correct the PAYGW amount if it does not match their records.

Under STP corrections, they have a period of time to correct information reported in a previous pay event without being liable to a penalty. If they do not correct within the required period, they may be liable to a penalty. Go to STP and penalties.


We may contact them where there are significant discrepancies between their STP reporting and the amounts they report on their activity statement to see if they need support.

What will the taxpayer see on ATO online services if they do not respond to the reminder?

If the ATO added amounts to the taxpayers ICA, they can view the details as below.

If the activity statement was...
	Then it will appear...



finalised

	

in the activity statement history list in ATO online services as ATO Finalised.

To view, from the home screen, select:

Lodgments
Activity statements
History.



not finalised

	

as outstanding with an alert that further action is required:

on the home screen, the taxpayer's outstanding activity statement will appear in the For action list 
when they view the outstanding activity statement, amounts we have already added to their ICA will appear as 'ATO processed'.
I have not yet lodged my activity statement, and on ATO Online there is ATO Processed displayed next to the PAYGW amount. What do I need to do to correct PAYGW amount as it is incorrect?

Taxpayers can edit W1 and W2 amounts on the activity statement in ATO online services. See Making corrections above.

W3 and W4 amounts are not pre-filled. Where applicable, the taxpayer can edit these amounts.

Why has an activity statement been finalised without the taxpayers permissions?

The ATO already finalises activity statements with GSTI and PAYGI amounts, as these are amounts we notify taxpayers of. Taxpayers can meet their reporting obligation for PAYGW through STP.

We issue a letter to taxpayers to provide a summary of the amounts we have on record and remind them to lodge their activity statement, if these need to be corrected.  We only add amounts when the:

activity statement has not been lodged and the taxpayer has notified through STP that they have a PAYGW obligation
amounts are due and payable but not yet visible on their ICA
taxpayer has not responded to our reminder.
Even when we have added amounts, taxpayers can still correct via the activity statement.
Can the taxpayer vary their PAYGI and GSTI if they lodge a BAS where amounts have been added to the ICA?

Existing rules regarding variation for both PAYGI and GSTI have not changed. Go to:

PAYGI - instalment variations and elections

GST instalment labels.

How do I work out if I need to report a PAYGW correction in both my BAS and STP?

There may be times taxpayers need to report a correction in either or both their STP and activity statement. Go to STP corrections.


What payment support options are available if I cannot afford to pay?

Existing negotiating payment options

 are available, where applicable.

Can I opt-out of the LRS?

Employers cannot opt-out of the LRS. A reminder will only be sent if they do not lodge an activity statement by the due date.

Related enquiries
Can I have more time to lodge my activity statement?
Can I have more time to pay amounts on my ICA?
I need to correct the amounts recorded on my ICA
I do not know if I need to report the correction in STP and/or my activity statement.
Can I have more time to lodge my activity statement?

Existing deferral and suspension guidelines still apply for eligible candidates within the lodgment strategy. Go to Deferrals and suspensions.


Can I have more time to pay amounts on my ICA?

Where an employer needs help paying, go to Negotiating Payment Options.


I need to correct the amounts recorded on my ICA

There may be times when employers need to correct their PAYGW amount after we added it to their account. For example if they:

submit an STP report late that impacts their PAYG withheld amount in the period
submit an STP report to fix an amount you previously reported, that impacts your PAYG withheld amount in the period
failed to notify an amount that they cannot report through STP.

Go to Making corrections above.

I do not know if I need to report the correction in STP and/or my activity statement

To help decide if they need to make corrections in either or both their STP reporting and activity statement, see STP corrections.



-------


-------
Lodgment Reminder Strategy escalation | Enterprise Knowledge Management
https://ekm/fo/nn/062/lodgment-reminder-strategy-escalation


Lodgment Reminder Strategy escalation

B-2 - Additional steps to action Lodgment Reminder Strategy (LRS) escalation enquiries.

Last published 8 January 2025

Favourite Notes Collapse all 
Background

B-2

This page provides the additional steps to action Lodgment Reminder Strategy (LRS) escalation enquiries.

This page is only to be used if staff have exhausted the information on:

STP and activity statements - ATO PAYGW pre-fill,

 and

ATO PAYG withholding pre-fill for activity statements 

on the ATO website.

Recent updates

08/01/2025

	

Update to 'In Detail'.

	

SD-89420

In Detail
Reminder amount does not match taxpayer's record

As taxpayers report PAYG withholding (PAYGW) via STP, we will use that same data to help prepare activity statements for lodgment. Taxpayers primary source of data should be their software and payroll records.

If the taxpayer requires assistance to decide if they need to correct their STP reporting and/or activity statement, go to STP corrections.


Taxpayer transitioning to group or consolidated group

Advise the taxpayer to continue to lodge their PAYGW obligations until the registration is complete.

If the taxpayer wants to check the progress of their registration, go to Registrations - GST groups, branches, JV & consolidated.


Taxpayer needing more time to lodge and/or pay
If the taxpayer contacts the ATO...
	Then...

before reminder due date	

if the taxpayer requests a deferral, go to Deferrals and suspensions.


If deferral or suspension:

was granted, advise the taxpayer to lodge and finalise BAS on/before the granted due date
was not granted or not requested by the taxpayer, advise the taxpayer
to lodge and finalise the BAS as soon as possible
failure to lodge on time penalties may be applied to outstanding activity statements
GIC will apply to any amounts overdue and is calculated from when the amount is due and payable.

after reminder due date, but before known amounts are added to activity statement and Integrated Client Account (ICA)



after reminder due date, and after known amounts were added to activity statement and ICA

	

where:

all amounts are known, advise taxpayer to revise BAS as soon as possible (if required) to correct labels
some amounts are known, advise the taxpayer to
review and update PAYGW amount (if required), and
lodge BAS with any other remaining obligations as soon as possible.

Advise the taxpayer:

if they do not revise or lodge their BAS, any known amounts added to the activity statement and ICA will remain due and payable
failure to lodge on time penalties may be applied to outstanding activity statements
GIC will apply to any amounts overdue and is calculated from when the amount is due and payable.
If the taxpayer needs a payment plan, go to Negotiating Payment Options.



Tax agent experiencing difficulties with On Demand report

If the taxpayer experiences issues with the on demand report, refer to Online services for agents troubleshooting.

-------


-------
Payment Plan FAQ | Enterprise Knowledge Management
https://ekm/fo/ec/a/payment-negotiations-and-arrangements/payment-plan-faq

 
Payment Plan FAQ

This page provides answers to commonly requested information about Payment Plans.

Last published 27 February 2026

Favourite Notes Collapse all 
Background

This page provides answers to commonly requested information about Payment Plans.

This page is only updated when:

new common enquiries are identified

intel is received about call drivers (e.g. from speech analytics)

trends and feedback is provided from support networks (e.g. Frontline Services Support)

content owners make a request. 

Warning alert:
Only submit feedback for this page if there is incorrect information or broken links. Consult your support staff if necessary.
Recent updates

27/02/2026

	Update to 'In Detail'	

SD-102301

Self Help
ATO website
Success alert:
Help the caller go to the page while on the phone.

This is a chance to educate the caller about self-help options, which may lead to:

the taxpayer using self-service in the future, and
a better taxpayer experience.

Taxpayers can obtain more information from the ATO website on:

Paying the ATO


Help with paying

 - individual and sole traders
Account and payments in Online services for business

 - companies, partnerships and trusts
Online services for agents (OSfA)
Accounts and payments

Profile

Payment plan estimator

View PRN's online

Release from your tax debt

Support to lodge and pay.


Information alert:
Use our self-service any time - it's easy, free and fast. Refer to Self-help services.


In Detail
Campaigns

These can be factsheets, emails, letters or SMS to taxpayers. Refer to:

Siebel - verify outbound correspondence items


Communications Main Inventory.


For specific campaign information, refer to Outbound Dialler Campaigns - Debt.


Payment plan frequent links

Negotiating Payment Options

 (including creating a payment plan online)

Payment plan conditions


Online services for agents - Payment plans


Payout figure for existing payment plan.


Hardship

Hardship request


Financial difficulties or serious hardship - taxpayer query


Financial difficulties and serious hardship consideration


Tailored support for taxpayers experiencing vulnerability.

Frequently asked questions

Why should I lodge overdue documents before entering into a payment plan?

What is the GIC accruing on my account?

Can I get GIC remitted?

Why doesn't Online Services allow me to have a payment plan for xx number of years?

Why does the ATO ask personal questions about my finances?

Why should I lodge overdue documents before entering into a payment plan?

It is best to have all documents lodged and up-to-date so the full liability is known. Overdue lodgments can incur penalties and generate a debt amount payable, both of which can default a payment plan.

If the overdue documents are linked to the Lodgment Reminder Strategy, refer to Activity statements - Lodgment Reminder Strategy

 for information on Processed Known Amounts. 

Consider if an interim arrangement would be appropriate to allow time for the taxpayer to lodge any overdue documents.

In some cases, a standard payment plan may be appropriate. However, you do need to consider the increased risk of default if the taxpayer does not pay any new debt amounts, including any penalties and interest.

What is the GIC accruing on my account?

General interest charge (GIC) is a single rate of interest applied for the late payment of a tax debt and may apply even if a penalty does not. GIC is calculated on a daily compounding basis, from the due date of outstanding amounts up to the date before the debt is paid in full.  Refer to General interest charge.


Can I get GIC remitted?

GIC remissions can only be considered under limited circumstances where

the late payment was beyond the taxpayers' control, and
they have taken mitigating steps to minimize its impact.

Any requests for remission should be handled in accordance with GIC, FTL, SIC remission or cancellation request.


Why doesn't Online Services allow me to have a payment plan for xx number of years?

Our systems and guidelines support a payment plan within reasonable timeframe based on legislative and administrative guidelines. Refer to PS LA 2011/14

 - General debt collection powers and principles.

Why does the ATO ask personal questions about my finances?

Our decision-making must focus on the taxpayer's current circumstances and capacity to address their tax affairs. 

This includes balancing the expectation for payment in the shortest possible time, whilst ensuring the taxpayer can maintain:

the payment plan
any other ongoing obligations.
-------



-------
Payment plan conditions | Enterprise Knowledge Management
https://ekm/fo/fs/isc/work-management-activities/payment-arrangement/payment-plan-conditions
 
Payment plan conditions

Advise taxpayer of payment plan conditions, plus additional conditions for direct debit and director penalty liability.

Last published 1 December 2025

Favourite Notes Collapse all 
Background

This page provides the:

conditions to advise the taxpayer after

providing a payout figure for an existing plan, or

granting a payment plan, extension of time to pay (extension) or payment in full (PIF)

additional conditions for direct debit and director penalty liability.

Ensure the taxpayer understands all conditions relevant to the agreed payment plan. Provide additional conditions under the headings for direct debit and director penalty liability if applicable.
Recent updates
01/12/2025	Update under 'Direct debit - credit/debit card'.	SD-89618
Self Help
ATO website
Help the taxpayer to go to the page while on the phone.

This is a chance to educate the taxpayer about self-help options, which may lead to:

the taxpayer using self-service in the future, and
a better taxpayer experience.

Taxpayers can obtain more information from the ATO website on:

Payment plan conditions


Request a direct debit.


Use our self-service any time - it's easy, free and fast. Refer to Self-help services.


In Detail
Payment processing times

Payments:

need to reach us on or before its due date
can take up to 4 business days to be received by us and to appear on the taxpayers ATO account
made on a weekend, Australian national public holiday or after the processing cut off time on business days, will be processed on the next business day.
Standard/review plan
Taxpayers can pay the debt in full or make additional payments at any time. They can check their account balance via online services or by calling 13 11 42 for a payout figure.
Taxpayers need to allow for payment processing times to ensure payments are received by the ATO on or before the due date.
If instalments and ongoing obligations are not lodged and paid in full by the due date

the payment plan may default
penalties may apply.
If any tax credits arise, they

may be offset against any existing debt
may reduce the length of the payment plan
do not replace the payment plan instalments.
If a payment cannot be met

the taxpayer may be able to manage their payment plan by using online services to modify their instalment amount, due date or cancel the payment plan, or
the taxpayer must call 13 11 42 before the payment due date to avoid

the payment plan defaulting

referral to an external collection agency

stronger debt recovery commencing.
GIC will continue to accrue until the full debt is paid.
For review payment plans only, before the last payment is due, the taxpayer must call 13 11 42 to discuss how to finalise the debt.
Extension/PIF

The payment amount includes GIC up until the agreed date.

Taxpayers can pay the debt in full or make additional payments at any time. They can check their account balance via online services or by phoning 13 11 42 for a payout figure.

Taxpayers need to allow for payment processing times to ensure payments are received by the ATO on or before the due date.

If instalments and ongoing obligations are not lodged and paid in full by the due date

the payment plan may default

penalties may apply.

If any tax credits arise, they

may be offset against any existing debt

may reduce the length of the payment plan

do not replace the payment plan instalments.

If a payment cannot be met


the taxpayer may be able to manage their payment plan by using online services to modify their instalment amount, due date or cancel the payment plan, or

the taxpayer must call 13 11 42 before the payment due date to avoid
the payment plan defaulting
referral to an external collection agency
stronger debt recovery commencing.

GIC will continue to accrue until the full debt is paid.

Interim plan

Taxpayers can pay the debt in full or make additional payments at any time. They can check their account balance via online services or by calling 13 11 42 for a payout figure.

Taxpayers need to allow for payment processing times to ensure payments are received by the ATO on or before the due date.

If instalments and ongoing obligations are not lodged and paid in full by the due date

the payment plan may default

penalties may apply.

If any tax credits arise, they

may be offset against any existing debt

may reduce the length of the payment plan

do not replace the payment plan instalments.

GIC will continue to accrue until the full debt is paid.

Stronger recovery action may commence if a payment plan defaults. To avoid this, taxpayers must call 13 11 42 to renegotiate payment when their circumstances change as agreed. Such as if they

submit overdue lodgments

obtain finance

are unable to make any of the planned instalments before the due date.

Payout figure for existing plan

If the payment is not made in full:

the conditions of the existing payment plan will continue to apply

instalments should be made as scheduled.

GIC-free extension/PIF

The payment amount does not include any GIC. GIC will be remitted for the duration of the payment plan, provided the debt is paid as per the agreement.

Taxpayers need to allow for payment processing times to ensure payments are received by the ATO on or before the due date.

If instalments and ongoing obligations are not lodged and paid in full by the due date

the payment plan may default

penalties may apply.

If any tax credits arise, they

may be offset against any existing debt

may reduce the length of the payment plan

do not replace the payment plan instalments.

If a payment cannot be met

the taxpayer may be able to manage their payment plan by using online services to modify their instalment amount, due date or cancel the payment plan, or
the taxpayer must call 13 11 42 before the payment due date to avoid

the payment plan defaulting

referral to an external collection agency

stronger debt recovery commencing.
GIC-free payment plan

GIC will be remitted for the duration of the payment plan, provided the terms of the agreement are met.

Taxpayers can pay the debt in full or make additional payments at any time. They can check their account balance via online services or by calling 13 11 42 for a payout figure.

Taxpayers need to allow for payment processing times to ensure payments are received by the ATO on or before the due date.

If instalments and ongoing obligations are not lodged and paid in full by the due date

the payment plan may default

penalties may apply.

If any tax credits arise, they

may be offset against any existing debt

may reduce the length of the payment plan

do not replace the payment plan instalments.

If a payment cannot be met

the taxpayer may be able to manage their payment plan by using online services to modify their instalment amount, due date or cancel the payment plan, or
the taxpayer must call 13 11 42 before the payment due date to avoid

the payment plan defaulting

referral to an external collection agency

stronger debt recovery commencing.
Direct debit - FIA

Direct debit will continue as scheduled unless the

taxpayer cancels the direct debit authority

ATO advises that the direct debit has been cancelled.

If not cancelled, direct debit may continue

even if the payment plan defaults or is completed early

if there is a debt amount not yet due which was not included in the arrangement.

Direct debits can be cancelled online or by contacting us at least three business days before the instalment is due.

If the direct debit status of the final instalment or balloon payment has not been cancelled when entering the payment plan in ICP, remind the taxpayer this larger amount will be direct debited from their account.
If required, modify

 the direct debit status of the final instalment or balloon payment in the active payment plan.
Direct debit - credit/debit card

Direct debit will continue unless:

the card becomes unusable (e.g. reported stolen, lost)
the card expires and the taxpayer has not updated the card
the payment plan has completed or defaults
the taxpayer cancels the payment plan
ATO advises the payment plan has been cancelled.

Direct debits can be cancelled online or by contacting us at least one day before the instalment is due.

If the direct debit status of the final instalment or balloon payment has not been cancelled when entering the payment plan in ICP, remind the taxpayer this larger amount will be direct debited from their account.
If required, modify

 the direct debit status of the final instalment or balloon payment in the active payment plan.
Director penalty liability
Warning alert
Do not provide any details of the company to a resigned director, as this is a breach of privacy. You must only advise the director of their individual Director Penalty payment plan conditions.

Advise the director any refunds owed to the director/s will be offset against their parallel liabilities. This is the case even if the company is subject to a payment plan.

The director will need to

monitor their payments via their myGov account, or

contact us on 1300 303 570 and select option 2 when prompted, for an accurate payout figure.

Related Resources
GIC rates

-------

-------
Hardship request | Enterprise Knowledge Management
https://ekm/fo/fs/da/hardship/hardship-request
 
Hardship request

Actions to take when a taxpayer is requesting a hardship priority refund and the return has been received.

Last published 30 January 2026

Favourite Notes Collapse all 
Background

This page explains the action to take when a taxpayer is requesting a hardship priority refund and the return has been received.

Warning

This page is only to be used when the taxpayer has an identifiable debt, or are in significant financial hardship.

Recent updates

30/01/2026

	

Updated Advise the taxpayer section.

	

SD-101504

In Detail
Advise the taxpayer

To show serious financial hardship, you may be requested to provide recent evidence to support your claim such as: 

official eviction notice (not a warning of possible eviction due to rental arrears)

pending disconnection of essential services, for example 

water 

electricity 

gas

mobile phone, or

internet


notice of impending legal action 

letter from charitable organisation regarding 

loss of employment 

inability to provide for basic necessities 

bank notice, for example 

overdraft call 

mortgaged property repossession 

overdue medical bills 

letter from doctor verifying the inability to earn an income due to illness or caring for a sick family member 

final notice from school regarding payment of mandatory fees 

funeral expenses

repossession notice of essential items, for example 

car 

motorcycle 

evidence of serious hardship.


Request for a hardship priority refund

This is only for hardship priority refunds where the return has been received. If this is the:

first hardship request, go to Hardship - requesting a priority processing


existing hardship request, go to Hardship - progress of priority processing request.


Evidence of financial hardship

We may ask you to provide recent evidence to support your claim of financial hardship.

Last updated 9 April 2026

We may ask you to provide recent evidence to support your claim of financial hardship. Your evidence should support your current financial circumstances.

Any documents you provide should be dated within 4 weeks of the date you give them to us.

We take many factors into account when assessing your claim for financial hardship. Providing one or more of these documents listed below may not necessarily result in you being granted financial hardship status, but can help in us understanding your situation.

In some cases, these requirements may change, depending on your individual circumstances.
Examples of documents to provide evidence of financial hardship

Individuals
	

Businesses or not-for-profits

Evidence may include:

    official eviction notice (not a warning of possible eviction due to rental arrears)
    pending disconnection of essential services, like water, electricity, gas, mobile phone or internet
    notice of impending legal action
    letter from a charitable organisation regarding loss of employment or inability to provide for basic necessities
    bank notice, for example, overdraft call or mortgaged property repossession
    overdue medical bills
    letter from a doctor verifying the inability to earn an income due to illness or caring for a sick family member
    final notice from school regarding payment of mandatory fees
    funeral expenses
    repossession notice of essential items, like a car or motorcycle.

	

Evidence may include:

    a current bank notice
    other bank notices (for example, an overdraft call)
    an eviction notice
    a disconnection notice
    a repossession notice
    a notice of impending legal action
    staff pay records
    contract payment schedules
    legal documents.

 
-------



-------
Hardship - requesting priority processing | Enterprise Knowledge Management
https://ekm/fo/fs/da/hardship/hardship-requesting-priority-processing

 
Hardship - requesting priority processing

How to action a taxpayer request for priority processing of income tax return refunds.

Last published 21 November 2025

Favourite Notes Collapse all 
Background

Operation Protego activities impact taxpayer advice/treatment. Ensure you confirm the taxpayer is not identified for Operation Protego activities before proceeding.

Taxpayers impacted by Operation Protego activities can be identified:

via 2022 Operation Protego Siebel alert, or
if they have a credit suppression and Siebel note, or activity description referencing #operationprotego.

In all other instances refer to the procedures below.

This page provides guidance to assist taxpayers applying for priority processing of an income tax return refund due to hardship.

Priority processing is not available for activity statements. To help taxpayers with activity statement refunds, refer to Progress of activity statements refunds.


If the taxpayer states they have already lodged a priority processing request, and:

have not received an initial contact after 2 business days, go to Hardship - Request initial contact for priority processing

received initial contact but the refund has not issued, go to Hardship-Progress of priority processing request.

Recent updates

21/11/2025

	

Update to task 1.

	

SD-99962

Self Help
ATO website
Help the caller to go to the page while on the phone.

This is a chance to educate the caller about available options, which may lead to:

them using self-service in the future, and
a better experience.

Taxpayers can obtain more information from the ATO website on:

serious financial hardship and how to submit a request on the Tax support for individuals, businesses, not-for-profits and tax professionals

 page
hardship refunds by asking Alex our virtual assistant. To Ask Alex for help they will need to

go to www.ato.gov.au

type 'hardship refund' in pop-up.

Alex will guide the taxpayer to the relevant page with supporting information.

Use our self-service any time - it's easy, free and fast. Refer to Self-help services.


Checks
PORO

Establish PORO

 if required.

Taxpayer details

Check taxpayer details and update if required:

phone number,

 a phone number is required because we sometimes require additional information
financial institution account (FIA) details,

 in the event you are entitled to a refund, we want to ensure your bank details are correct. Electronic funds transfer (EFT) is the faster way to receive your refund.
In Detail
Task 1 - Check Eligibility
Step	Action


1

	

To apply for priority processing, the taxpayer must first lodge the relevant income tax return.

Check Client calendar in ICP to confirm the tax return is present under Received lodgments. If:

yes, go to step 2
no,

advise the taxpayer their lodgment must be received before requesting priority processing
this is the end of the procedure.



2

	

Advise the taxpayer:

priority processing does not guarantee a refund. If you owe money to the ATO or other government agencies, your refund may be offset to pay those debts
the ATO will try to release refunds as soon as possible. However, due to other factors that may influence the ability to release the funds, such as insolvencies, the ATO is unable to provide a time frame.



3

	

Check ICP to see if the taxpayer has any outstanding debt.

Ensure you review the income tax SOA to determine if the account was in debt when the return was lodged, as the taxpayer may not have been aware.

If:

yes,

advise the taxpayer

debt amounts
any available credit may be offset to outstanding debt
it is essential the taxpayer explains their circumstances to the debt officer, so appropriate support can be provided
warm transfer to Debt Assist Hardship team on x92176
if you cannot warm transfer

provide the external number 1300 788 347, option 1
go to step 4
no, go to step 4.



4

	

To be eligible the taxpayer must have at least one of the documents listed under Hardship Request.

 Confirm which documentation the taxpayer possesses (dated within 4 weeks of submission).

If the taxpayer is not eligible, normal processing service standards will apply.

Taxpayers can apply for priority processing over the phone. This requires the taxpayer to provide a verbal declaration confirming they possess an eligible document.

If the taxpayer agrees to apply over the phone:

yes, go to task 2
no, go to step 5.



5

	

Taxpayers can also apply for priority processing using online services or fax. This requires them to provide a copy of their evidence:

online Services request can be submitted using

Online Services for agents
Online Services for business, or
Online services for ABN and WPN Holders

fax requests are to be sent to 1300 730 298 including a cover letter with taxpayer's

TFN
full name
signature
address
contact phone number, and
the words 'Serious Hardship'.

Once the application information is provided, go to task 3.

Task 2 - Phone Application
Step	Action


1

	

Read the following Verbal Declaration to the taxpayer.

Verbatim

Obtain declaration from the taxpayer.

The ATO may request evidence to support your claim for priority processing. By proceeding, you agree that you are in possession of eligible evidence required to apply for priority processing. It is an offence to provide false or misleading information and penalties can apply.

Do you want to proceed with applying for priority processing over the phone?




2

	

If the taxpayer's response is:

yes, go to step 3
no,

taxpayer is not eligible for priority processing
go to task 3.



3

	

Create a new Siebel activity with the following classifications and service request link the activity to your inbound phone activity:

Capability: Operations
Category: ACCOUNTING
Type: Hardship Request.

You must copy and paste the following note into the Hardship Request. Complete all fields or the priority processing request will be denied.

Copy and paste into the Notes field:

Caller's name/role
Phone number
Bank BSB / Account number
Have you advised the taxpayer of their Debt (where applicable)?
Taxpayer has agreed with the Verbal Declaration (Yes or No)
Which documentation is in the taxpayer's possession?

Once all fields are completed, update the activity:

Status: UnAllocated
Assigned To: ENTERPRISE_Q.

Advise the taxpayer they'll receive a call or SMS once an officer reviews their request.

Go to task 3.

Task 3 - Continue with progress of lodgment

If credit source is IPRS Credit Card or IPRS Debit Card, follow Credit card reversals - escalation.


Whether or not the taxpayer is eligible for priority processing, continue following Progress of return - Where is my refund?

 to try to immediately assist the taxpayer and resolve any:

suppressions
active suspense items, or
open review items.
 
-------



-------
Hardship-progress of priority processing request | Enterprise Knowledge Management
https://ekm/fo/fs/da/hardship/hardship-progress-of-priority-processing-request

 
Hardship-progress of priority processing request

This page provides information when a taxpayer has requested a priority processing request.

Last published 3 July 2025

Favourite Notes Collapse all 
Background

This page provides the procedure to assist taxpayers check the status of their priority processing request or provide further information.

Recent updates
15/05/2024	Minor updates made to tasks 1 and 2.	SD-81028
Checks
PORO

Establish PORO

 is required.

Procedure Steps
Task 1 - Determine status of Hardship Request

Check Siebel for a recent Hardship activity with the below classifications:

Capability: Operations

Category: Accounting

Type: Hardship Request.

Review information in the note within this activity.

If the note states...	Then...


insufficient or missing information has been provided

	

conduct priority processing eligibility checks and complete the application

 and ensure any missing information is obtained from the taxpayer.




the lodgment (or refund) has processed

	

check ICP for NOA/refund details and provide any relevant information.

This is the end of the procedure.




pending action on any of the following:

suspense errors

suppressions

review items

action from CISC or audit officers

any other system processes
	

review notes and provide a status update on the request.

go to task 2.

Task 2 - Continue with progress of lodgment

Use the following procedure to assist the taxpayer and resolve any suppressions, active suspense or open review items, refer to Progress of return - Where is my refund?


Add a note

 to the Hardship activity advising that the taxpayer called with any advice you have provided to them.

Finalise your inbound activity as:

Capability: Taxpayer Contact

Category: Accounts

Type: Refunds and Credits

Finalisation Code: Priority Refund Request

Status: Done

Description: Where relevant enter a description based on the type of disaster and outcome of the enquiry. For example, 'Flood - IT Granted' or 'Fire - IT lodgment deferral'.

This is the end of the procedure.

 
-------
General interest charge (GIC) rates

Find the current general interest charge (GIC) rates and when GIC applies to late payments.

Last updated 6 March 2026
On this page

    When GIC applies
    How GIC is calculated
    Quarterly GIC rates

When GIC applies

We may apply general interest charge (GIC) if an amount of tax or some other liability remains unpaid after the date it should have been paid. This includes where:

    there is a tax shortfall because of an amendment or correction
    an instalment of tax is underestimated
    a return is lodged late.

The GIC is updated quarterly with rates for the next quarter generally announced 2 weeks before the start of that quarter.
How GIC is calculated

Section 8AAD of the Taxation Administration Act 1953 specifies how the rate of the charge is calculated. To work out the daily rate, divide this rate by the number of days in a calendar year.
Quarterly GIC rates
GIC rates for 2025–26 income year

Quarter
	

GIC annual rate
	

GIC daily rate

April – June 2026
	

10.96%
	

0.03002740%

January – March 2026
	

10.65%
	

0.02917808%

October – December 2025
	

10.61%
	

0.02906849%

July – September 2025
	

10.78%
	

0.02953425%
GIC rates for 2024–25 income year

Quarter
	

GIC annual rate
	

GIC daily rate

April – June 2025
	

11.17%
	

0.03060274%

January – March 2025
	

11.42%
	

0.03128767%

October – December 2024
	

11.38%
	

0.03109290%

July – September 2024
	

11.36%
	

0.03103825%
GIC rates for 2023–24 income year

Quarter
	

GIC annual rate
	

GIC daily rate

April – June 2024
	

11.34%
	

0.03098361%

January – March 2024
	

11.38%
	

0.03109290%

October – December 2023
	

11.15%
	

0.03054794%

July – September 2023
	

10.90%
	

0.02986301%
GIC rates for 2022–23 income year

Quarter
	

GIC annual rate
	

GIC daily rate

April – June 2023
	

10.46%
	

0.02865753%

January – March 2023
	

10.06%
	

0.02756164%

October – December 2022
	

9.31%
	

0.02550685%

July – September 2022
	

8.00%
	

0.02191781%
GIC rates for 2021–22 income year

Quarter
	

GIC annual rate
	

GIC daily rate

April – June 2022
	

7.07%
	

0.01936986%

January – March 2022
	

7.04%
	

0.01928767%

October – December 2021
	

7.01%
	

0.01920548%

July – September 2021
	

7.04%
	

0.01928767%
GIC rates for 2020–21 income year

Quarter
	

GIC annual rate
	

GIC daily rate

April – June 2021
	

7.01%
	

0.01920548%

January – March 2021
	

7.02%
	

0.01923288%

October – December 2020
	

7.10%
	

0.01939891%

July – September 2020
	

7.10%
	

0.01939891%
GIC rates for 2019–20 income year

Quarter
	

GIC annual rate
	

GIC daily rate

April – June 2020
	

7.89%
	

0.02155738%

January – March 2020
	

7.91%
	

0.02161202%

October – December 2019
	

7.98%
	

0.02186301%

July – September 2019
	

8.54%
	

0.02339726%
GIC rates for 2018–19 income year

Quarter
	

GIC annual rate
	

GIC daily rate

April – June 2019
	

8.96%
	

0.02454794%

January – March 2019
	

8.94%
	

0.02449315%

October – December 2018
	

8.96%
	

0.02454794%

July – September 2018
	

8.96%
	

0.02454794%
GIC rates for 2017–18 income year

Quarter
	

GIC annual rate
	

GIC daily rate

April – June 2018
	

8.77%
	

0.02402740%

January – March 2018
	

8.72%
	

0.02389041%

October – December 2017
	

8.70%
	

0.02383562%

July – September 2017
	

8.73%
	

0.02391781%
GIC rates for 2016–17 income year

Quarter
	

GIC annual rate
	

GIC daily rate

April – June 2017
	

8.78%
	

0.02405479%

January – March 2017
	

8.76%
	

0.024%

October – December 2016
	

8.76%
	

0.02393443%

July – September 2016
	

9.01%
	

0.02461749%
GIC rates for 2015–16 income year

Quarter
	

GIC annual rate
	

GIC daily rate

April – June 2016
	

9.28%
	

0.02535519%

January – March 2016
	

9.22%
	

0.02519126%

October – December 2015
	

9.14%
	

0.02504109%

July – September 2015
	

9.15%
	

0.02506849%
GIC rates for 2014–15 income year

Quarter
	

GIC annual rate
	

GIC daily rate

April – June 2015
	

9.36%
	

0.02564383%

January – March 2015
	

9.75%
	

0.02671233%

October – December 2014
	

9.63%
	

0.02638356%

July – September 2014
	

9.69%
	

0.02654794%
GIC rates for 2013–14 income year

Quarter
	

GIC annual rate
	

GIC daily rate

April – June 2014
	

9.63%
	

0.02638356%

January – March 2014
	

9.59%
	

0.02627397%

October – December 2013
	

9.6%
	

0.02630137%

July – September 2013
	

9.82%
	

0.02690411%
GIC rates for 2012–13 income year

Quarter
	

GIC annual rate
	

GIC daily rate

April – June 2013
	

9.95%
	

0.02726027%

January – March 2013
	

10.24%
	

0.02805479%

October – December 2012
	

10.62 %
	

0.02901639%

July – September 2012
	

10.66 %
	

0.02912568%
GIC rates for 2011–12 income year

Quarter
	

GIC annual rate
	

GIC daily rate

April – June 2012
	

11.37%
	

0.03106557%

January – March 2012
	

11.62%
	

0.03174863%

October – December 2011
	

11.86%
	

0.03249315%

July – September 2011
	

12.00%
	

0.03287671%
GIC rates for 2010–11 income year

Quarter
	

GIC annual rate
	

GIC daily rate

April – June 2011
	

11.92%
	

0.03265753%

January – March 2011
	

12.02%
	

0.03293151%

October – December 2010
	

11.74%
	

0.03216438%

July – September 2010
	

11.80%
	

0.03232877%
GIC rates for 2009–10 income year

Quarter
	

GIC annual rate
	

GIC daily rate

April – June 2010
	

11.16%
	

0.03057534%

January – March 2010
	

10.95%
	

0.03%

October – December 2009
	

10.30%
	

0.02821918%

July – September 2009
	

10.13%
	

0.02775342%
GIC rates for 2008–09 income year

Quarter
	

GIC annual rate
	

GIC daily rate

April – June 2009
	

10.16%
	

0.02783562%

January – March 2009
	

11.76%
	

0.03221918%

October – December 2008
	

14.31%
	

0.03909836%

July – September 2008
	

14.75%
	

0.04030054%
GIC rates for 2007–08 income year

Quarter
	

GIC annual rate
	

GIC daily rate

April – June 2008
	

14.69%
	

0.04013661%

January – March 2008
	

14.15%
	

0.03866120%

October – December 2007
	

13.75%
	

0.03767123%

July – September 2007
	

13.37%
	

0.03663014%
GIC rates for 2006–07 income year

Quarter
	

GIC annual rate
	

GIC daily rate

April – June 2007
	

13.37%
	

0.03663014%

January – March 2007
	

13.37%
	

0.03663014%

October – December 2006
	

13.19%
	

0.03613699%

July – September 2006
	

12.87%
	

0.03526027%
GIC rates for 2005–06 income year

Quarter
	

GIC annual rate
	

GIC daily rate

April – June 2006
	

12.61%
	

0.03454794%

January – March 2006
	

12.63%
	

0.03460274%

October – December 2005
	

12.62%
	

0.03457534%

July – September 2005
	

12.68%
	

0.03473973%
GIC rates for 2004–05 income year

Quarter
	

GIC annual rate
	

GIC daily rate

April – June 2005
	

12.63%
	

0.03460274%

January – March 2005
	

12.43%
	

0.03405479%

October – December 2004
	

12.44%
	

0.03398907%

July – September 2004
	

12.51%
	

0.03418033%
GIC rates for 2003–04 income year

Quarter
	

GIC annual rate
	

GIC daily rate

April – June 2004
	

12.57%
	

0.03434426%

January – March 2004
	

12.31%
	

0.03363388%

October – December 2003
	

11.82%
	

0.03238357%

July – September 2003
	

11.78%
	

0.03227397%
GIC rates for 2002–03 income year

Quarter
	

GIC annual rate
	

GIC daily rate

April – June 2003
	

11.75%
	

0.03219178%

January – March 2003
	

11.84%
	

0.03243835%

October – December 2002
	

11.96%
	

0.03276712%

July – September 2002
	

11.84%
	

0.03243835%
GIC rates for 2001–02 income year

Quarter
	

GIC annual rate
	

GIC daily rate

April – June 2002
	

11.31%
	

0.0309863%

January – March 2002
	

11.28%
	

0.03090411%

October – December 2001
	

11.95%
	

0.03273973%

July – September 2001
	

11.89%
	

0.03257534%
GIC rates for 2000–01 income year

Quarter
	

GIC annual rate
	

GIC daily rate

April – June 2001
	

13.86%
	

0.0379726%

January – March 2001
	

13.86%
	

0.0379726%

October – December 2000
	

13.86%
	

0.03786885%

July – September 2000
	

14.00%
	

0.03825137%
GIC rates for 1999–2000 income year

Quarter
	

GIC annual rate
	

GIC daily rate

April – June 2000
	

13.65%
	

0.03729508%

January – March 2000
	

13.08%
	

0.0357377%

October – December 1999
	

12.73%
	

0.03487671%

July – September 1999
	

12.72%
	

0.03484931%


------

-------
Capacity to Pay Macro | Enterprise Knowledge Management
https://ekm/fo/fs/sbsc/payment-negotiations-and-arrangements/capacity-to-pay-macro

 
Capacity to Pay Macro

How to use the Capacity to Pay macro.

Last published 17 April 2026

Favourite Notes Collapse all 
Background

This page provides instructions on how to use the Capacity to Pay (CTP) macro.

Recent updates
17/04/2026	Update to Procedure Steps 'Using the macro'.	SD-103566


09/02/2026

	

Update made to step 9.

	

SD-101745

Procedure Steps
Using the macro
Step	Action
1	

Access the Capacity to Pay Tool

 from the BDA Hub.


2	

Select Clear at the top of the page to remove any previous data.


3	

Complete the relevant income and expense sections:

Income (green)

Expenses (blue)

Dependants (blue).

When completing these sections:

use the correct frequency column (Weekly/Fortnightly/Monthly/Quarterly/Annual), depending on how often the taxpayer receives or pays the amount

use numbers only in the frequency columns. For example, $300.50 is entered as 300.50

add any custom income and expenses at the bottom of the list.


4	

Complete the relevant assets and bank account sections:

Assets (purple)
Banking and Savings (purple).

When completing these sections:

use a new row for each asset or bank account

for each asset or account, use the

name in the left column, and
value in the right column
use a '-' (minus) sign before the value for

amounts owed on assets

negative account balances

use numbers only in
Borrow or Sell Against
Credits and Debits.

5	

Use the drop-down menu to complete the question fields at the bottom of the spreadsheet.

Field	Option
Do you have a partner or spouse?	
Yes
No

How many dependants?	
0
1
2
3
4+

This will calculate the Estimated Household Expenditure (EHE). The EHE:

provides an estimated monthly figure for day-to-day living expenses

is used by financial institutions to determine a taxpayer's capacity to pay

compares the taxpayer's expenses to an average household of the same size.


6	

Review Available Funds on the Finances tables on the right-hand side of the spreadsheet. This determines the amount available after listed expenses have been paid. If the amount is:

positive (green), this is the available amount

negative (red), this is the deficit amount.

Determine if you require an estimate of the payment plan duration. If:

yes, go to step 7

no, go to step 9.

7	

Select Payment Arrangement Duration Calculator and complete the fields as follows:

Debt: amount owing, including GIC to today's date
Repayment Amount: proposed payment plan instalment amount
Payment Frequency: from the drop-down menu, select

Weekly

Fortnightly

Monthly

Quarterly, or

Annual

Days until first repayment: number of days from today until first payment will be received
Current GIC Rate (%): update to the current quarterly General interest charge (GIC) rate.


8	

Select Calculate and review the results.

Determine if a Warning result is provided. If:

yes

review the reason. The proposed

amount may be more than the taxpayer can afford, or

duration may be longer than a 36 month payment plan and require approval

take the appropriate action

no, go to step 9.


9	

Complete the following actions:

save the CTP macro as an Excel Macro-Enabled Workbook and attach to your activity
convert the CTP information into a note-friendly format. Select
Create Note
the relevant Note Period
Copy Note to Clipboard
paste the CTP note to the relevant section of the appropriate payment plan note template

 (refer to Notes fly-out tab)
select Clear and Exit to close the macro.
Outcomes
Determine next action
If you were directed to this page from...	Then go to...
Negotiating Payment Options

	

Outcomes on the previous procedure to complete required actions.




Release - action a release application by phone


	

Checks on the previous procedure to complete required actions.

 
-------



-------
Business capacity to pay macro | Enterprise Knowledge Management
https://ekm/fo/fs/sbsc/payment-negotiations-and-arrangements/business-capacity-to-pay-macro
 
Business capacity to pay macro

D-1 - Instructions for using the Business capacity to pay macro.

Last published 21 October 2025

Favourite Notes Collapse all 
Background

D-1

This page provides the instructions for using the Business Capacity to Pay Tool macro.

Recent updates

16/12/2020

	

New procedure created.

	

SD-28884

Procedure Steps
Using the macro
Step	Action


1

	

Access the Business Capacity to Pay Tool from the BDA Hub.





2

	

Select Clear at the top of the page to remove any previously entered information.




3

	

Discuss and complete the relevant income and expense sections with the taxpayer:

Income/Revenue (Green)

Expenses (Blue).

When completing these sections:

use the correct column depending on the frequency the taxpayer receives/pays the amount

custom income/expenses can be manually added at the bottom of the list

in the Monthly/Quarterly/Annual columns, use numbers only.




4

	

Discuss and complete the relevant assets and bank account sections with the taxpayer:

Assets (Purple)

Banking and savings (Purple).

When completing these sections:

ensure a new row is used for each asset or bank account

each row should have the

name of the asset/account in the left column, and

value of the asset/account in the right column

for amounts owed on assets or negative account balances, use a '-' (minus) sign before inputting the value

in the Borrow or Sell Against or Creditors/Credits/Debtors/Debits columns, use numbers only.


5	

Under the Banking and Savings section, the:

Limit of Overdraft figure should be entered under the Credits column

Current overdraft Used figure should be entered under the Debits column.


6	

Review the Available Funds outcome of the Finances tables on the right-hand side of the spreadsheet.

If the amount is...	Then this amount is...


positive (green)

	

what the taxpayer has left after the listed expenses have been paid from their income.




negative (red)

	

the deficit the taxpayer is in after the listed expenses have been addressed.


7	

To see an estimate of the payment plan duration:

select Payment Arrangement Duration Calculator

fill in the following fields

Debt

Repayment Amount

Payment frequency

Days until first repayment

Current GIC rate %. ensure you update the GIC rate

 to the current quarterly rate.


8	

Select Calculate and review the results.

If a Warning result appears:

review the reason for the warning, and

take appropriate action as the proposed

amount may be more than the taxpayer can afford, or

payment plan may be longer than 36 months requiring approval.


9	

To convert the capacity to pay information to a note-friendly format, select the following:

Create Note

the relevant Note Period

Copy Note to Clipboard.

Insert this copied note into the relevant section of the payment plan Notes template.

Select Clear and then Exit to close the macro.

 
-------





-------
Payment Plan FAQ | Enterprise Knowledge Management
https://ekm/fo/quick-links/payment-plan-faq

 
Payment Plan FAQ

This page provides answers to commonly requested information about Payment Plans.

Last published 27 February 2026

Favourite Notes Collapse all 
Background

This page provides answers to commonly requested information about Payment Plans.

This page is only updated when:

new common enquiries are identified

intel is received about call drivers (e.g. from speech analytics)

trends and feedback is provided from support networks (e.g. Frontline Services Support)

content owners make a request. 

Warning alert:
Only submit feedback for this page if there is incorrect information or broken links. Consult your support staff if necessary.
Recent updates

27/02/2026

	Update to 'In Detail'	

SD-102301

Self Help
ATO website
Success alert:
Help the caller go to the page while on the phone.

This is a chance to educate the caller about self-help options, which may lead to:

the taxpayer using self-service in the future, and
a better taxpayer experience.

Taxpayers can obtain more information from the ATO website on:

Paying the ATO


Help with paying

 - individual and sole traders
Account and payments in Online services for business

 - companies, partnerships and trusts
Online services for agents (OSfA)
Accounts and payments

Profile

Payment plan estimator

View PRN's online

Release from your tax debt

Support to lodge and pay.


Information alert:
Use our self-service any time - it's easy, free and fast. Refer to Self-help services.


In Detail
Campaigns

These can be factsheets, emails, letters or SMS to taxpayers. Refer to:

Siebel - verify outbound correspondence items


Communications Main Inventory.


For specific campaign information, refer to Outbound Dialler Campaigns - Debt.


Payment plan frequent links

Negotiating Payment Options

 (including creating a payment plan online)

Payment plan conditions


Online services for agents - Payment plans


Payout figure for existing payment plan.


Hardship

Hardship request


Financial difficulties or serious hardship - taxpayer query


Financial difficulties and serious hardship consideration


Tailored support for taxpayers experiencing vulnerability.

Frequently asked questions

Why should I lodge overdue documents before entering into a payment plan?

What is the GIC accruing on my account?

Can I get GIC remitted?

Why doesn't Online Services allow me to have a payment plan for xx number of years?

Why does the ATO ask personal questions about my finances?

Why should I lodge overdue documents before entering into a payment plan?

It is best to have all documents lodged and up-to-date so the full liability is known. Overdue lodgments can incur penalties and generate a debt amount payable, both of which can default a payment plan.

If the overdue documents are linked to the Lodgment Reminder Strategy, refer to Activity statements - Lodgment Reminder Strategy

 for information on Processed Known Amounts. 

Consider if an interim arrangement would be appropriate to allow time for the taxpayer to lodge any overdue documents.

In some cases, a standard payment plan may be appropriate. However, you do need to consider the increased risk of default if the taxpayer does not pay any new debt amounts, including any penalties and interest.

What is the GIC accruing on my account?

General interest charge (GIC) is a single rate of interest applied for the late payment of a tax debt and may apply even if a penalty does not. GIC is calculated on a daily compounding basis, from the due date of outstanding amounts up to the date before the debt is paid in full.  Refer to General interest charge.


Can I get GIC remitted?

GIC remissions can only be considered under limited circumstances where

the late payment was beyond the taxpayers' control, and
they have taken mitigating steps to minimize its impact.

Any requests for remission should be handled in accordance with GIC, FTL, SIC remission or cancellation request.


Why doesn't Online Services allow me to have a payment plan for xx number of years?

Our systems and guidelines support a payment plan within reasonable timeframe based on legislative and administrative guidelines. Refer to PS LA 2011/14

 - General debt collection powers and principles.

Why does the ATO ask personal questions about my finances?

Our decision-making must focus on the taxpayer's current circumstances and capacity to address their tax affairs. 

This includes balancing the expectation for payment in the shortest possible time, whilst ensuring the taxpayer can maintain:

the payment plan
any other ongoing obligations.

-------


-------
Warnings for overdue amounts and lodgments | Enterprise Knowledge Management
https://ekm/fo/fs/sbsc/lodgments/progress-and-enquiries-about-a-lodgment/warnings-for-overdue-amounts-and-lodgments

 
Warnings for overdue amounts and lodgments

Information about various legal warnings that include actions the ATO may undertake for different entity types.

Last published 17 March 2026

Favourite Notes Collapse all 
Background

This page provides information on how to action legal warnings for overdue amounts and lodgments.

Provide appropriate warnings:

based on your discussion and what you believe may influence the taxpayer to improve their payment and/or lodgment behaviour
as part of a natural conversation.

Use language which explains why you are providing the warnings, for example:

'I am now going to read you the legal warnings for overdue amounts / lodgments to ensure you are fully aware of the actions the ATO may take'.

If the taxpayer asks for further explanation, provide the additional information.

Recent updates
17/03/2026 	

Update to 'Overdue lodgments'. 

	SD-102577
Self Help
ATO website
Help the caller go to the page while on the phone.

This is a chance to educate the caller about self-help options, which may lead to:

using self-service in the future, and
a better experience.

Taxpayers can obtain more information from the ATO website on:

If you don't pay


If you don't lodge.


Use our self-service any time - it's easy, free and fast. Refer to Self-help services.


In Detail
Overdue amounts

If speaking to a director of a company, you must provide both the 'companies' and 'individuals' legal warnings if the compliance period on the director penalty notice:

will soon expire, or
has expired.

The director must understand:

their personal liability for the following liabilities

PAYG withholding (PAYGW)

Superannuation Guarantee (SG) and 

GST, including luxury car tax (LCT) / wine equalisation tax (WET) / GST instalment (GSTI)

the ATO may undertake action against both the company and the individual.

Entity
	Entity specific actions



Individuals, partnerships of individuals and trusts (including superfunds) - Trustee is an individual

	

A summons/claim through the court which may be followed through to judgment. A judgment order:

is a public record of your debt, and 

may inhibit your ability to get loans or lines of credit.

Take action to proceed to bankruptcy.




Companies, partnerships of companies and trusts (including superfunds) - Trustee is a company 

	

Creditors statutory demand for payment (section 459E notice),is a notice requiring your company to pay the outstanding debt in full. If the debt claimed is not paid, your company could be wound up.

For PAYGW, SG charge (SGC) and GST (including LCT/WET/GSTI) obligations only, actions may include issuing director penalty notices (DPNs) against all directors.

DPNs enable the ATO to recover a penalty outstanding by the company, against all directors for an amount equal to any unpaid:

PAYGW

net GST, inclusive of LCT and WET, and/or

SGC shortfall, including nominal interest and administrative components.

If issued and the debt is not paid or secured within the terms of the DPN, action may be taken to collect the debt from each of the directors personally. This may include the issuing:

of a garnishee notice on the director's personal bank accounts, or

a summons/claim, and proceeding to judgment and bankruptcy.

Actions by ATO (for both entity types above)

The ATO may issue a:

formal notice requiring you to provide information by a specified date. Prosecution action may be taken if you do not supply the required information

garnishee notice requiring an employer, bank and/or debtor to withhold money and send it to the ATO in payment of your debt. If issued to a bank

they are legally required to withdraw funds from your accounts

this may include trading accounts, until the amount specified in the notice is satisfied.

Information

Provide additional warning:

for debts more than $100K
excluding deductible gift recipients (DGRs), registered charities, superfunds and government organisations.

The ATO may disclose outstanding business tax debts to credit reporting bureaus (CRB's). Disclosure of tax debt details may impact credit worthiness and have flow on impacts for the business.

Overdue lodgments
Failure to lodge (FTL) penalty

Penalties may be applied on each overdue document ranging from:

$110 to $1,650 for small entity
$220 to $3,300 for medium entity
$550 to $8,250 for large entity, and 
$105,000 to $825,000 for significant global entity.

The amount of the penalty:

will depend on the
lodgment due date, and
size of the entity
can increase depending on how long the document is overdue.

Refer to Failure to lodge on time penalty

 for more information.

Information

If speaking to a registered agent, there is no need to provide the full FTL penalty warning if the agent is aware of the penalty implications.

Default assessment

A default assessment may be raised, which may incur an additional penalty ranging from 75-90% of the amount of the assessed tax amount.

By lodging the overdue document/s now using your own records, you will avoid this penalty being applied.

Prosecution 

This matter may be escalated to our prosecution area for legal action without further warning. This may include the issue of a summons against you.

If you are prosecuted and convicted, you could:

obtain a criminal record

for an individual, be

fined by the court for each period overdue, up to $16,500

imprisoned for a period of up to 12 months

for a company, be fined by the court for each period overdue up to $82,500.

ABN

To keep your ABN active, you must be running a business or enterprise in Australia: 

Lodging your overdue returns and activity statements is essential, it demonstrates your business is still operating.
If you don’t lodge, the ATO may assume you’re no longer in business and can cancel your ABN.
Losing your ABN means you can’t legally invoice, claim GST credits, or conduct business under that number.
The ATO reviews your income and expenses, third-party data, and your lodgment history when checking ABN entitlement.

Self managed superannuation funds

In addition to the above warnings, where returns remain overdue, the fund may be given a notice of non-compliance and consequently lose its concessional tax treatment.

 
-------

-------
Final Warning | Enterprise Knowledge Management
https://ekm/fo/nn/048/final-warning

 
Final Warning

Final Warning Campaign details for taxpayers with overdue tax, fringe benefits returns and/or activity statements.



Last published 21 August 2024

Favourite Notes Collapse all 
Background

This page contains information for the campaign where taxpayers have received a letter titled Final Warning for their overdue:

income tax returns

fringe benefits tax returns, and/or

activity statements. 

Recent updates

21/08/2024

	

Updates made throughout page.

	

SD-84372

In Detail
About the campaign

The Final Warning letter

 is issued via DCS to taxpayers where they have: 

overdue
income tax returns
fringe benefits tax returns, and/or
activity statements
been sent previous reminder letters.

Taxpayers who fail to lodge immediately will be referred for further action.

This letter may not list all overdue lodgments

Additional time to lodge should not normally be granted.

Desired outcomes

Ensure the taxpayer understands:

this letter is a demand for them to lodge all overdue

income tax returns

fringe benefits tax returns, and/or

activity statements

this is the last opportunity to do the right thing before we take serious action

the desired outcomes of the relevant lodgments on the table below.

For overdue...	The taxpayer must... 


income tax returns

	

lodge, if they are required to lodge, or

provide the ATO with a notice of non-lodgment for any financial years they are not required to lodge.                 




fringe benefits tax returns




activity statements

	

determine if they have reportable amounts for any labels on their overdue activity statements and lodge immediately.

Reaching desired outcomes

To reach the desired outcomes, you will need to:

secure a commitment date from the taxpayer to lodge all overdue documents. The documents should be lodged immediately regardless of the number overdue

ensure the taxpayer is aware

this commitment date you are obtaining will not be treated like a deferral or suspension

their account may progress to further legal action without any further notice

confirm the taxpayer's contact details (address, contact numbers and email) and update only with their consent.

Consequences of non-compliance

If the taxpayer does not lodge as demanded, we will treat their non-lodgment as a choice not to comply rather than an oversight. The consequences of this could be:

failure to lodge (FTL) penalties (if not already imposed)

penalties generally range from 1 to 5 penalty units

 for each 28 day period the lodgment is overdue. For a

small entity, it is calculated at the rate of one penalty unit for each period of 28 days (or part thereof) that the return or statement is overdue. This is up to a maximum of 5 penalty units

medium entity, it is multiplied by 2. A 'medium entity'

is a medium withholder for PAYG withholding purposes, or

has assessable income or current GST turnover of more than $1 million and less than $20 million

large entity, it is multiplied by 5. A 'large entity'

is a large withholder for PAYG withholding purposes, or

has assessable income or current GST turnover of $20 million or more

a significant global entity, the base penalty amount is multiplied by 500. FTL penalties apply where they fail to lodge an approved form required to be given at a date that is on or after 1 July 2017

the penalty can increase depending on how long the return and/or activity statement is overdue

audit and further investigations - we may conduct a further examination and verification of their records

default assessments and associated penalties

the Commissioner may determine the tax-related liability, and

an administrative penalty of at least 75% of the tax related liability may apply to all overdue activity statements or income tax returns. For example, $10,000 tax related liability will incur an administrative penalty of at least $7,500

commencement of prosecution action for non-lodgment.

Conversation guidelines

Use the following conversation guidelines if required to engage with the taxpayer about their overdue lodgments:

your account has been identified as requiring urgent attention

you have had reminders from us previously but you still haven't lodged

you must lodge even if you think you will have difficulties paying any associated debt. We can discuss payment arrangement options if you are unable to pay in full

penalties are likely to be applied, if they haven't already occurred. How would a penalty impact your cash flow?

not lodging is a criminal offence. Is it your intention to continue to not lodge?

Finalisation actions
Step	Action


1

	

Confirm all of the taxpayer's income tax returns, fringe benefits tax returns and/or activity statements that are currently overdue. For:

income tax returns and fringe benefits tax returns, see Due dates in ICP


activity statements, search for an activity statement.





2

	

Confirm all of the taxpayer's contact details and update only with their consent. Refer to the links below:

address


electronic address


phone number.





3

	

Determine if the taxpayer requires more information on their lodgment requirements.

If...	Then...


yes

	

go to step 4.




no, because the overdue lodgments have since been lodged

	

this is the end of the procedure.




no, because they are now aware of what actions they need to take

	

go to step 5.


4	

Follow the relevant EKM pages in the table below to assist the taxpayer in:

lodging

determining their requirements to lodge, or

providing a non-lodgment advice.

Lodgment type	Information and links


Income tax returns

	

how to lodge

 an income tax return

determine the taxpayer's eligibility to lodge a non-lodgment advice

 over the phone if the taxpayer has already

used the 'Do I need to lodge a tax return?' calculator, or

read the tax return instructions and they are not required to lodge

assistance to determine if they need to lodge

 an income tax return.




Fringe benefits tax returns

	

requirements and how to lodge a fringe benefits tax return


if the taxpayer has determined they are not required to lodge a fringe benefits tax return

check taxpayer role,

 then action a non-lodgment advice

 (non-individuals) over the phone, or

the taxpayer can lodge a Notice of non-lodgment

 (NAT 3094).




Activity statements

	

how to lodge

 an activity statement

how to complete

 an activity statement

replacing or generating activity statements


if the taxpayer has already determined the amounts they need to report on their activity statement and these are nil, assess the taxpayer's eligibility to lodge a nil activity statement

 via the automated self-help service

if the taxpayer is no longer in business, you may need to cancel their ABN

 and any other active roles.




5

	

Confirm the overdue lodgments and obtain a commitment date from the taxpayer to lodge all overdue documents immediately.

Add a note

 to your Siebel activity using the appropriate template below:

'The taxpayer has committed to lodge their overdue <insert document names> by <insert due date>'

'Taxpayer did not provide a lodgment commitment but was informed they have <insert document names> overdue'.




6

	

To finalise the call, ensure the taxpayer is aware:

why they received the letter

what steps they need to complete to ensure they meet the desired outcomes

to avoid further legal action from occurring on their account, they need to lodge all overdue documents by the due dates

they can find out more information on the ATO website by searching If you don't lodge.

 
-------


-------
Check for outstanding document | Enterprise Knowledge Management
https://ekm/fo/nn/048/check-for-outstanding-document

 

Check for outstanding document

Work types
Support materials
ATOlaw
Emergency
PORO
Support materials
Support materials
Check for outstanding document

D-1, B-5 - Information on where to check for outstanding documents or lodgments.

Last published 19 December 2025

Favourite Notes Collapse all 
Background

D-1, B-5

This page provides the systems to check when determining if there are outstanding lodgments.

Recent Updates
19/12/2025 	Added Excise return checks under 'Procedure steps' 	SD-92135
Checks
PORO

Establish PORO.


Procedure Steps

Check for outstanding documents, by checking the relevant systems using the following table.

 For...	 Check...


income tax returns, and

activity statements

	the Lodgments Overdue Summary gadget and its drill-down links in ECP.




fringe benefits tax (FBT) returns

taxable payments annual report (TPAR), and

Excise returns

	

ICP.

 

For TPAR the:

role is Taxable Payments Annual Reporter, and
account is Administrative Reporting Account.

 

PAYGW annual reports

	COEAS ATOMS.

 

If:

appropriate, income tax returns can also be checked using ICP

 and activity statements using IPS


the document has been lodged, you may need to go to GIC, FTL, SIC remission or cancellation request.


Unable to locate lodgment

If there is no lodgment present, and the LPR or agent requests that you check the progress of the: 

Income tax return, go to Progress of return

FBT annual return, go to Progress of FBT return

 (B-5 FBT WOL) 
Activity statement, go to Progress of activity statement

 (B-2 B-5 D-1) 
PAYGW annual report, go to Confirmation of annual report lodgment

 (B-3 D-1) 
TPAR, go to Confirmation of TPAR lodgment

 (B-3) 
Excise return, 
go to Progress of return in Excise collections and other information

 (B-5) 
if there is no Excise return under the Expected lodgments tab in Client calendar, this indicates the return has been lodged but not finalised yet or lodgment may not be mandatory.

-------

-------
Identify if a final notice has issued | Enterprise Knowledge Management
https://ekm/fo/nn/052/identify-if-a-final-notice-has-issued

Skip to main content
Skip To search
ATOLaw

Emergency
PORO
My profile
EKM
Search
Menu
Home
Work types
Support materials
Work types
Support materials
ATOlaw
Emergency
PORO
Support materials
Support materials
Identify if a final notice has issued

How to identify if a final notice has issued.

Last published 29 October 2024

Favourite Notes Collapse all 
Background

This page shows you how to identify if a final notice has issued.

Recent updates
11/10/2024	

Final notice issued content updated.

	SD-86531
Procedure Steps
Final notice issued
Check	Classification
Siebel CCV activity > Summary tab > Taxpayer Contact History	

Capability: AC Case

Category: Correspondence or TPALS

Type: an Outbound option

Description: Final notice issued for...




Capability: Debt and Lodgment

Category: TPALS

Type: Lodgment Case Correspondence




Capability: Debt and Lodgment

Category: TPALS

Type: Lodgment Requested

Interaction: Outbound Correspondence

Attachment name: This will contain 'final_notice'.

Note: This classification applies to bulk mail-out final notices issued after 5 February 2017.

Prosecution action

Check the CCV > Summary Tab > Taxpayer Contact History for an outbound correspondence/phone activity with the following attributes:

Capability: AC Case

Description: Wording in relation to intent to prosecute (ITP).

 
-------



-------
Check for an active lodgment case | Enterprise Knowledge Management
https://ekm/fo/nn/049/check-for-an-active-lodgment-case

 
Check for an active lodgment case

How to check for an active activity statement lodgment case in Siebel.

Last published 25 July 2024

Favourite Notes Collapse all 
Background

This page shows how to check for an active activity statement lodgment case in Siebel.

Recent updates
22/06/2020	Page rewritten for Content Transformation.	

CT-Debt

Procedure Steps
Step	Action
1	

In the Siebel Consolidated Taxpayer View (CCV) screen, select the Case Summary tab.


2	

In the Cases screen, view the Type and Sub-Type of the cases. You may need to scroll across the screen to view the Type and Sub-Type columns.


3	

An active lodgment case exists if either of the following are displayed:

Type: Audit and enforcement with Sub-Type: Obligation enforcement, or

Type: Investigate and Prosecute with Sub-Type: Prosecution.
 
-------

-------
Activity Statements - registered agents quarterly due dates | Enterprise Knowledge Management
https://ekm/fo/fs/sbsc/activity-statements-and-payg-instalments/lodgment-due-dates/activity-statements-registered-agents-quarterly-due-dates
 
Activity Statements - registered agents quarterly due dates

D-1, B-1 - This page explains the registered agent lodgment program due dates for quarterly activity statements.

Last published 15 July 2025

Favourite Notes Collapse all 
Background

D-1, B-1

This page explains the registered agent lodgment program due dates, for electronic lodgment and payment of quarterly activity statements.

Recent updates

15/07/2025

	

Updates made throughout the page.

	

SD-95265

Self Help
ATO website
Help the taxpayer to go to the page while on the phone.

This is a chance to educate the taxpayer about self-help options, which may lead to:

using self-service in the future, and
a better taxpayer experience.
 Agents can obtain information about Activity statements

 from the ATO website.

Use our self-service any time - it's easy, free and fast. Refer to Self-help services.


In Detail

When a quarterly activity statement generates, a lodgment due date is forecast and recorded in:

ICP Client calendar,

 and
IPS.
Lodgment program due dates for electronic lodgment

The Lodgment program provides registered agents an extra 4 weeks for lodgment and payment of activity statements (except for quarter 2) where:

an electronic activity statement outbound preference is recorded in ICP, and
there is an active agent link at the

Taxpayer level, or
ICA level.

Quarter 2 statements are due 28 February due to the Christmas period lodgment concession.

Information

The extra 4 weeks will still apply if the taxpayer has an active Single Touch Payroll (STP) role and:

they lodge the activity statement instead of the linked agent, or

a paper outbound preference and active agent link is recorded in ICP.

Activity statements not eligible for additional time

Lodgment program due dates do not apply to taxpayers who:

lodge a quarterly

PAYG instalment notice (Form R),

GST instalment notice (Form S) or  

GST and PAYG instalment notice (Form T). These are only required to be lodged where the taxpayer is varying the instalment amount

lodge a PAYG instalment consolidated head entity activity statement

have a monthly cycle for GST or PAYG Instalments

lodge activity statements with only a monthly PAYG Withholding cycle.

Taxpayers who operate on substituted accounting periods (SAP) are only eligible if their quarters align with the standard quarters.

Due dates and concessions

Agents can refer to Quarterly activity statements

 on the ATO website.

Lodgment obligation	Original due date	Registered agent lodgment program due date


Quarter 4, 2024–2025

	

28 July 2025

	

25 August 2025




Quarter 1, 2025–2026

	

28 October 2025

	25 November 2025


Quarter 2, 2025–2026

	

28 February 2026

	

Not applicable




Quarter 3, 2025–2026

	

28 April 2026

	

26 May 2026




Quarter 4, 2025–2026

	

28 July 2026

	

25 August 2026

To be confirmed when Lodgment program 2026–2027 is developed.

 
-------



-------
Activity Statements - Quarterly | Enterprise Knowledge Management
https://ekm/fo/fs/isc/activity-statements/lodgment-due-dates/activity-statements-quarterly
 
Activity Statements - Quarterly

D-1, B-1 - Lodgment due dates for quarterly activity statements.

Last published 11 June 2024

Favourite Notes Collapse all 
Background

D-1, B-1

This page provides the lodgment due dates for quarterly activity statements, including:

statutory due dates for lodgment and payment

substituted accounting period (SAP)

electronic lodgment concession for self-preparers

head company of a consolidated group.

Recent updates

15/11/2023

	

Updated 'Concession due dates' section.

	

SD-76400

Self Help
ATO website
Success alert:
Help the caller go to the page while on the phone.

This is a chance to educate the caller about self-help options, which may lead to:

the taxpayer using self-service in the future, and
a better taxpayer experience.

Taxpayers can find more information from the ATO website on:

Activity statements - Lodgment and payment due dates

 (for registered agents)

Due dates

 (for taxpayers with registered agents)

Due dates for lodging and paying your BAS


Activity statements


Quarterly GST reporting.


Information
alert:
Use our self-service any time - it's easy, free and fast. Refer to Self-help services.


In Detail
Statutory due dates for lodgment and payment

Quarter 1: 28 October

Quarter 2: 28 February

Quarter 3: 28 April

Quarter 4: 28 July.

Substituted accounting period

SAP taxpayers balance on a date other than 30 June.

Early balancing SAP taxpayers have financial years which end earlier than if they were June balancers.

Late balancing SAP taxpayers have financial years which end later than if they were June balancers.

SAP lodgers must lodge and pay by the 28th day of the following month after their quarter ends, except in a 'standard' quarter 2 where the due date is 28 February.

If the taxpayer wants more information, go to Substituted Accounting Period (SAP) applications

 at Income tax returns.

Electronic lodgment concession for self-preparers

When a quarterly activity statement is generated, a lodgment due date is forecast and:

set in the ICP Client calendar, and

reflected in IPS.

Self-preparer concessions do not apply to:

monthly activity statements

annual activity statements

monthly GST payers with other quarterly roles

quarterly instalment notices - Forms R, S or T

quarterly pay as you go (PAYG) instalments for head companies of consolidated groups

SAP taxpayers

identified as a 'large business taxpayer', or

whose periods do not align with the standard quarters

any other taxpayers who do not have an original due date of the 28th.

Eligibility

The activity statement will receive a 2 week electronic lodgment and payment concession where:

the taxpayer (including a registered agent who lodges their own activity statement) has an electronic activity statement outbound preference in ICP, and

an active agent link does not exist at either the taxpayer or Integrated Client Account (ICA) level.

The exception is for quarter 2 where:

a lodgment concession already applies for the Christmas period

the due date is always 28 February.

Provided the taxpayer has an active Single Touch Payroll role, the 2 week concession will still apply:

if the taxpayer has a paper activity statement outbound preference is in ICP, and

no active agent link is recorded in ICP.

SAP taxpayers

Eligible SAP taxpayers will also receive the self-preparer concession. This means they will lodge and pay quarterly activity statements 6 weeks after the quarter ends.

The lodgment method is recorded in:

ICP - in the form summary Input by field, and

IPS -  User ID field.

Activity statements lodgment codes in ICP and IPS 
Lodgment method	Lodgment code


Tax agents via Online services for agents

	

TXGNT




BAS agent via Online services for agents

	

BSGNT




Online services for business

	

BNIND




ATO online for Individuals

	

INDIV




Business Portal (post 2017)

	

PRTLN




Business Portal (pre 2017)

	

EA5

Concession due dates

Quarter 1: (July - September) due 11 November

Quarter 2: (October - December) due 28 February 

Quarter 3: (January - March) due 12 May

Quarter 4: (April - June) due 11 August.

For more details, refer to Two week lodgment concession - terms and conditions

 on ATO website.

Re-forecasting of lodgment and payment due dates

The activity statement lodgment and payment due dates will be re-forecasted to the 4 week electronic agent concession:

if an active agent link is subsequently added in ICP prior to lodgment at either the taxpayer or ICA level, and

the electronic activity statement outbound preference remains.

The re-forecasted due dates will be displayed in:

ICP within 3 weeks

IPS after the activity statement is lodged and processed.

Head company of a consolidated group

The head company of a consolidated group will:

receive a consolidated activity statement to report quarterly PAYG instalment, and

will continue to receive an activity statement for any obligations they have.

The lodgment date will be the 21st day of the month following the end of the cycle.

Taxpayer cannot pay on time

Even if a taxpayer cannot pay their activity statement on time, they still must lodge it by the due date. General interest charge will apply to any amount not paid by the due date. Failure to lodge a document by the due date may result in a penalty ranging from 1 to 25 penalty units, depending on:

the entity size, and

how long the document is overdue.

 
-------

-------
Delivery preference | Enterprise Knowledge Management
https://ekm/fo/fs/isc/activity-statements/correspondence-options/delivery-preference


Delivery preference

Procedure to update delivery preference.

Last published 21 October 2025

Favourite Notes Collapse all 
Background

This page provides:


information about how taxpayer correspondence and notifications are delivered

the procedure to update a taxpayer's outbound preference in our system, and

the procedure to manage PAYGI and GSTI quarterly instalment notice (Form R, S or T) outbound preferences. The Paper-EXMT preference is an interim measure until a permanent solution is developed.

Personal preference type

The Personal preference controls correspondence and notifications for the income tax account. The Personal preference can be set to:

myGov. Refer to Communication preferences

 on the ATO website

Paper. Refer to Assisting taxpayers who wish to revert to paper in Scenarios below

Agent. Refer to Communication preferences and outbound correspondence.


Information
alert:
Where appropriate, actively promote Online products and applications as a preferred channel.

Activity statement preference type (B-1 D-1 I-4)

The activity statement delivery preference:

can only be applied at the account level

controls how activity statement notifications are delivered.

If outbound preference type is...	Then notification will be sent...


myGov

Information alert:
The Personal preference communication type must be set to myGov before the activity statement preference can be changed to myGov.

	

to the myGov inbox.




ECI - this option includes:

Online services for agents

Online services for business

SBR (this preference will display as 'Digital' when viewed by online taxpayers or agents)

	

via email.




Paper

Paper activity statements have been stopped for:

registered agents who lodge via

Online services for agents

Standard Business Reporting (SBR)

business who lodge via the Online services for business

individuals/sole traders who have a myGov account linked to the ATO with

activity statement obligations, or

pay as you go (PAYG) instalment obligations.


Information
alert:
The preferred delivery channel is digital. Before reverting taxpayers to paper, ensure all necessary checks have been completed to ensure the taxpayer is eligible to revert to paper.

See Assisting taxpayers who wish to revert to paper in Scenarios below

	

via paper form.




Paper - EXMT.

This is an interim measure for taxpayers of tax agents to continue receiving paper Forms R, S & T. Tax agents and taxpayers are unable to self-serve changes to this preference type.

See Instalment notices Forms R, S and T below.

Warning

Do not select Paper - EXMT when updating preferences.

	

via paper form.

Recent updates

22/08/2025

	

Update in 'Payment plan instalment reminder' and 'Add instalment reminder'.

	

SD-96270

Self Help
ATO website

Taxpayers with the activity statement outbound preference Paper-EXMT, and their tax agents, are unable to self-serve changes to this preference type. Tax agents can find out which taxpayers have this preference by generating an Outstanding activity statement report. Refer tax agents to Online services for agents user guide – Reports

 for more information.

Help the caller go to the page while on the phone.

This is a chance to educate the caller about self-help options, which may lead to:

the taxpayer using self-service in the future, and
a better taxpayer experience.

Use our self-service any time - it's easy, free and fast. Go to Self-help services.

Taxpayers can obtain more information from the ATO website on:

Communication preferences

 - individuals and sole traders
Taxpayer communication

 - tax agents
Managing electronic activity statements and instalment notices

 – tax agents.
Checks
PORO

Establish PORO,

 if required.

Power of Attorney relationship exists

Where a Power of Attorney relationship exists, the Power of Attorney should receive the taxpayer's correspondence via paper.

If this is not occurring, check if the taxpayer links have been set up correctly.


Scenarios
Instalment notice Forms R, S and T (B-1 D-1 I-4)

From 1 October 2020, PAYG and GST quarterly Instalment activity statement Forms R, S and T stopped issuing via paper and began issuing based on the taxpayers outbound preference. We received feedback that this has caused issues for some taxpayers and agents. From the March 2021 quarter, an interim measure was taken to acknowledge these concerns.

Activity statements delivery reverted to paper for taxpayers where the taxpayer:

had a registered tax agent. This measure did not apply to self-preparers

ICA postal address is the same as the agent postal address

had ECI preference as at 1 March 2021

received Form R, S or T in the December 2020 or March 2021 period. No new taxpayers are part of this measure after the March 2021 quarter.

Tax agents can find out which taxpayers have this preference by generating an Outstanding activity statement report. Refer tax agents to Online services for agents user guide – Reports

 for more information.

To check if a taxpayer is included in the interim measure, establish PORO

 then in ICP select:

Client home > Contact details > Outbound preferences. The activity statement outbound preference will be PAPER-EXMT

View outbound preference details screen: Input by field will be REQ76285.

Change to electronic – taxpayers and agents not wanting the interim measure

If the taxpayer has been included in the interim measure for Forms R, S and T but they do not want to receive paper, for:

current self-preparers, staff can update the preference to myGov
use Activity statement - all other taxpayer requested scenarios below to change the preference
agents or internal ATO request (e.g. large), if they want to change the preference for
up to 10 taxpayers, update the preference using Activity statement - all other taxpayer requested scenarios below
more than 10 taxpayers, then
obtain the agent’s details
go to Agent bulk request.
Revert to paper - taxpayers and agents not included in the interim measure

If the taxpayer has not been included in the interim measure for Forms R, S and T and they want to receive paper, for:

current self-preparers, staff can update the preference to paper

use Single request below to change the preference

advise the taxpayer if the IAS is lodged electronically

the system will automatically change the outbound preference to the electronic channel used to lodge the statement, and

to avoid this, they need to continue to lodge using paper until a permanent solution is implemented

agents or internal ATO request (e.g. large), if they want to change the preference for

up to 10 taxpayers, update the preference using Single request below

more than 10 taxpayers, then

obtain the agents details

go to Agent bulk request.

Information
alert:
Never modify an existing Activity statement outbound preference. If an error is made, always update it by adding the correct outbound preference. This will automatically end-date the incorrect one.

Single request - up to 10 taxpayers

Refer to the following table to add a new delivery preference for a Single Request - up to 10 taxpayers.

Step

	

Action




1

	

Go to Client home in ICP. Select Contact details from the right-hand menu.




2

	

Select Outbound preference tab and check if the outbound preference is ECI. If the preference is ECI:

go to the Electronic addresses tab

check if an email address is listed and check the address with the self-preparer/agent. If no address is listed, obtain a valid email address

go to Modify electronic address and update the email address

confirm if they still want to revert to paper delivery. If yes, advise them

this is an interim measure because of the ECI changes for instalment notices

the measure will continue until a permanent solution is developed

go to the Address tab and confirm the ICA account postal address. If incorrect, update the ICA postal address.




3

	

Complete the following:

go to IPS - Activity statement search window and type the relevant ABN or TFN

select Search

check if the taxpayer received a Form R, S or T for the March 2021 and December 2020 periods. To check this, highlight the row and double-click to open. In the Summary section under Form, Form R, Form S or Form T should be displayed. If

yes, go to step 4

no, then

advise the taxpayer the interim measure only applies to active PAYGI/GSTI who receive a Form R, S or T in the December 2020 and March 2021 periods

refer to business-as-usual procedures and guidelines

go to step 7.




4

	

Go to IPS - Activity Statement List screen and check the March 2021 IAS status. If the status is:

Despatched or Finalised, go to step 5

Cancelled, Discontinued or Terminated, check ICP roles to confirm if the PAYGI/GSTI roles are active for the period. If

active, go to step 5

inactive, the taxpayer is excluded from the interim measure

follow business-as-usual procedures and guidelines to help the taxpayer

go to step 7.




5

	

Select Add Outbound Preference.




6

	

Update the below fields:

Communication type: Activity statement

Authorised representative preference: as appropriate

Outbound preference: PAPER (do not select PAPER-EXMT)

Authorised representative: type the tax agent number (TAN), only if TAN is selected above

Apply to: Account

Account: select the appropriate Integrated Client Account number

Start date: type today's date

End date: 31/12/9999

Input reason: Taxpayer/Tax Agent initiated

select Save.

If the request does not process and the request is from a Tax Agent, you will need to add the Tax agent number (TAN) at the appropriate field.

If unsure seek assistance from your support officer.




7

	

Go to Siebel and finalise the activity. Complete the following:

add a note

 using the Delivery preference template

if the request was received via portal message, reply

 advising the request has been actioned, and

finalise the activity.

Agent bulk request - more than 10

Complete the steps in the following table to refer a bulk agent request to Activity Statement Product team.

Step	Action


1

	

Advise the agent:

the change only applies to quarterly Instalment notices Forms R, S and T

the request will be escalated to a different team to action, and

an ATO officer will contact them shortly.




2

	

Go to Activity Statement Product request form.





3

	

Update the below fields:

Title: Type 'Agent Bulk Request for Forms RST Siebel Activity <Activity ID>'

Taxpayer identifiers/reference number: type 'Bulk'

Request type: Work Request

Work type: Remediation

Business Priority: High

High Priority reason: as directed by procedure

Description:

complete the following template: Bulk request for registered agent name <contact name>, RAN <Registered Agent Number>

Contact phone <phone number including area code>

Current delivery preference: < ______>

New delivery preference: < ______> for the following taxpayers: <list taxpayers>

for each taxpayer, list the

ABN or TFN, and

ICA number

Have you discussed this request with anyone from the product team: Yes

Provide name of person: this field can remain blank

Attachments: add any attachments or supporting documentation available

Attachments must include

registered agent number

agent contact name and phone number

for each taxpayer with a requested change to paper, list the

ABN or TFN

ICA number

Notify someone else: this field can remain blank

Your Details:

User ID: type your user ID

Name: type your name.




4

	

Select Submit.




5

	

Go to Siebel and put the Siebel activity on hold:

Status: System/Process Pending

Review Date: set the review date to 14 days from today's date.

Assisting taxpayers to revert to paper

Warning
alert:
The following steps must be completed prior to reverting taxpayers to paper activity statements.

The ATO's preference is for taxpayers to use a digital channel. Before taking any action, you must check what the taxpayer's lodgment preference is moving forward. If they intend to lodge:

electronically, continue below to check the circumstance for their request

via paper, go to Update outbound preference to paper in Procedure Steps below.

Circumstances in which to issue a paper activity statement

The paper delivery preference can be used in certain circumstances as per the following table.

Taxpayer	Circumstances


self-preparer

	
Where a taxpayer lodges via paper but agent has undertaken a one-off digital lodgment on behalf of the taxpayer (could be a revision, PAYGI variation, original or GST annual). Once the activity statement is lodged electronically, the delivery preference is automatically updated to electronic.
Taxpayer registered for a role, and:

has defaulted to digital
advises they did not undertake the registration themselves
cannot interact with the ATO digitally.
Taxpayer has been registered for PAYGI, which is ATO generated and the channel preference assigned was digital but the taxpayer wants a paper delivery preference.
When you have not been able to assist the taxpayer to resolve any difficulties they are having using Help - myGov.

Taxpayers with vision impairment who cannot access documents sent via the myGov inbox. For more information, go to Hearing, speech and vision impaired taxpayers.

Where a taxpayer temporarily does not have access to internet services. Encourage the taxpayer to revert the delivery preference back to myGov when they regain access to internet services. This can be done by:

selecting the myGov delivery preference in the My profile tab on ATO Online, or
contacting the ATO by telephone, or
lodging an activity statement online.
Where the request is to revert the quarterly instalment notices (Forms R, S and T) from digital to paper delivery preference. Refer to Instalment notice Forms R, S and T.



tax or BAS agent

	
Taxpayer is registered for instalments only and requires paper form.
Agent has lodged a one-off form for the taxpayer digitally (could be an amendment, original or GST annual) but the taxpayers usual delivery preference is paper.
Before reverting the taxpayer back to paper

Refer to the following table before updating the taxpayer to paper.

Taxpayer	Action


self-preparer

	

Check the following:

Have all previous lodgments been via paper? If yes, change the taxpayers delivery preference to paper.
Have there been multiple consecutive digital lodgments? If yes, advise the taxpayer that we do not issue paper activity statements if there has been a history of multiple consecutive digital lodgments.
How was the ITR lodged? If it was lodged via myTax, encourage the taxpayer to lodge their activity statement online via Online services for individuals and sole traders on myGov.



tax or BAS agent

	

Advise the tax or BAS agent:

any future digital lodgments will result in a delivery preference change to digital. Paper activity statements will no longer be issued
reminders are emailed to taxpayers 21 days before the due date for digital taxpayers. Ensure the agent has provided the taxpayer email address.

Where a taxpayer is eligible to revert to paper

Complete the below actions:

ensure the address is correct and there is no Unreliable address indicator

go to Update outbound preference to paper in Procedure Steps below.

Information
alert:
If the outbound channel is blank:

check the Additional taxpayer details tab in Taxpayer details, and
go to Outbound Correspondence Channel Preference row as this should be 'paper'.
Circumstances to consider when not to issue paper activity statement - B-1 and D-1 only

If the taxpayer wants to receive a paper activity statement as a reminder to lodge or just for their records, advise them that we do not issue paper activity statements for these reasons. If the taxpayer:

agrees, advise them
about different ways to receive reminders, such as downloading key dates and reminders to their computer or mobile device calendar through the
Small business newsroom,

 or
ATO app
to bookmark the following from the ATO website
Activity statement generate dates,

 and
Due dates for lodging and paying

the ATO will issue email reminders to taxpayers 21 days before the due date if a form has not been lodged. Ensure the taxpayer email address is recorded on the activity statement account
insists on receiving paper activity statements
advise the taxpayer their delivery preference will revert to an electronic delivery method if they lodge their activity statement via
Online services
SBR
go to Update outbound preference to paper in Procedure Steps below.
Activity statement reminders

Taxpayers with an outbound delivery preference of ECI in ICP will receive an email reminder 21 days before the due date, provided contact details are available.

For further information, refer to Activity Statements - Notifications.


Payment plan instalment reminder

From 4 December 2021, users authorised at the account level can opt in to receive SMS or email reminders.

Individuals/Sole traders can:

self-serve via ATO Online

contact the ATO, or

use their tax agent.

When opting into payment plan instalment reminders, the Payment Reminder will be saved to the account level under Outbound Preference in ICP. The reminder will be issued to an active phone number or email address listed.

Phone numbers and email addresses are not uniquely reserved for payment plan reminders. Updates will affect other correspondence using these same details. For example, activity statement notifications. This may cause confusion for taxpayers or agents who entered their details for one purpose and these are over written when an instalment reminder preference is set.

What this means for you

When inputting a new mobile number or email address on Telephone Numbers/Electronic Addresses tabs in Contact Details, if all payment plans are using:

the same mobile or email details, input at the taxpayer level
different mobile/email for each payment plan, input the relevant details at the account level.

You need to be aware as a potential result of these changes:

agents or taxpayers at the account level may not receive correspondence, including activity statement notifications or payment plan instalment reminders

agents or taxpayers may request their details be reviewed and updated manually if they are unable to make changes online

consideration should be given to remission of failure to lodge penalties and consequences of late payment if requested reminders are not received.

Procedure Steps
Before you begin

When updating the taxpayer's outbound preference, in any case do not select:

the following options from the Communication type drop-down menu

Income Tax

Activity Statement Related

Loans

Superannuation

Debt

Employer and Business Obligations

any option in the following fields

Authorised representative preference

Authorised representative

the following option from the Outbound Preference drop-down menu

AGENT_DGTL

ELS Out

PAPER-EXMT.

Personal preference

Refer to the relevant content:

Update outbound preference to myGov

Update outbound preference to paper.

Update outbound preference to myGov

To update the taxpayer's outbound preference to myGov:

use the ATO Identity Support Tool

 to confirm the taxpayer has a myGov account linked to the ATO

add myGov electronic address,

 if

it does not already exist

is inactive, or

end-dated.

Use the below table to add personal myGov delivery preference.

Step	Action


1

	

Go to Client home screen in ICP.




2

	

Select Contact details from the right-hand menu.




3

	

Select the Outbound preferences tab.




4

	

Select Add outbound preference.




5

	

Update the fields:

Communication type: select Personal
Authorised representative preference: leave blank
Outbound preference: select myGOV
Authorised representative: leave blank
Apply to: select Taxpayer
Start date: type today's date
End date: type 31/12/9999
Input reason: Taxpayer Initiated.



6

	

Select Save.

Update outbound preference to paper

Use below table to end date the personal myGov delivery preference. This will automatically set the taxpayer's outbound preference to paper.

Step	Action


1

	

Go to the Client home screen in ICP.




2

	

Select Contact details from the right-hand menu.




3

	

Select the Outbound preferences tab.




4

	

Select the Personal Communication type.




5

	

Select Modify outbound preference.




6

	

Update the fields:

End date: type today's date
Input reason: select Taxpayer Initiated.
Information

The status should remain as 'Active'.




7

	

Select Save.

Activity statements (B-1 D-1 I-4)

Refer to the relevant content:

Instalment notice Forms R, S and T (B-1 D-1 I-4)

Update outbound preference to paper

All other taxpayer requested scenarios.

Update outbound preference to paper

Never modify an existing Activity statement outbound preference. If an error is made, always update it by adding the correct outbound preference. This will automatically end-date the incorrect one.

Before you begin:

ensure the taxpayer is not required to lodge electronically, refer to About electronic activity statements section at Activity Statements - lodgment and delivery methods

go to remove an agent

 section of Agent registration and practice details page.

Use the following table to add paper delivery preference.

Step	Action


1

	

Go to the Client home screen in ICP.




2

	

Select Contact details from the right-hand menu.




3

	

Select the Outbound preferences tab.




4

	

Select Add outbound preference.


5 	

Update the fields:

Communication type: select Activity Statement
Authorised representative preference: leave blank
Outbound preference: select Paper
Authorised representative: leave blank
Apply to: select Account
Account: select the appropriate Integrated Client Account number
Start date: type today's date
End date: type 31/12/9999
Input reason: select Tax Agent Initiated.



6

	

Select Save.

All other taxpayer requested scenarios

Never modify an existing Activity statement outbound preference. If an error is made, always update it by adding the correct outbound preference. This will automatically end-date the incorrect one.

Use the following table to add a new delivery preference.

Step	Action


1

	

Go to the Client home screen in ICP.




2

	

Select Contact details from the right-hand menu.




3

	

Select the Outbound preferences tab.




4

	

Select Add outbound preference.




5

	

Update the fields:

Communication type: select Activity Statement
Authorised representative preference: leave blank
Outbound preference: select the appropriate option
Authorised representative: leave blank
Apply to: select Account
Account: select the appropriate Integrated Client Account number
Start date: type today's date
End date: type 31/12/9999
Input reason: Taxpayer Initiated.



6

	

Select Save.

Add instalment reminder

Complete the steps in the following table to add an instalment reminder.

Information
alert:
When setting up payment reminders, a valid mobile number/email address needs to be recorded at the taxpayer level, or account level (refer to Payment plan instalment reminder), on the Telephone Numbers/Electronic Addresses tabs in Contact details.

Step	Action


1

	

Go to the Client home screen in ICP.




2

	

Select Contact details from the Client menu.




3

	

Select the Outbound preferences tab from the contact details screen.




4

	

Select Add outbound preference and update the below values:

Communication type: Payment Reminders

Authorised representative preference: leave blank

Outbound preference: as appropriate

Authorised representative: leave blank

Apply To: Account level

Account: select the appropriate Integrated Client Account number

Start date: from today's date

End date: leave blank 

Input reason: as appropriate either Taxpayer Initiated or Agent Initiated.




5

	

Select Save.

Cancel instalment reminder

Complete the steps in the following table to cancel the instalment reminder.

Step	Action


1

	

Go to the Client home screen in ICP.




2

	

Select Contact details from the Client menu.




3

	

Select the Outbound preferences tab from the contact details screen.




4

	

Select Payment reminders and Modify Outbound preference and End date.




5

	

Update the Input reason as appropriate.




6

	

Select Save.

Outcomes
Confirm next action
 If you...	Then...

linked to this page from another procedure, and
have more tasks to complete
	
return to the previous procedure, and
continue to action accordingly.

updated the taxpayer's Activity statement delivery preference	 go to Replace or generate the activity statement

 if required.
have finished the required actions for the taxpayer	
add a note

 using the Delivery preference template
update and close activity.
 
-------


-------
Actioning a Direct debit (credit/debit card) | Enterprise Knowledge Management
https://ekm/fo/fs/sbsc/work-management-activities/accounts/payments-and-refunds/payment-enquiries-and-requests/actioning-a-direct-debit-credit-debit-card

 
Actioning a Direct debit (credit/debit card)

Actions required to add or modify direct debit details.

Last published 23 February 2026

Favourite Notes Collapse all 
Background

This page provides the actions required to add or modify direct debit details.

Warning

Do not take credit card details until after call recording is paused as instructed in this procedure.

Recent updates
23/02/2026	Change made in 'Review credit/debit card details'.	SD-101021
28/01/2026	Update to 'Cancel the direct debit', Task 1.	SD-101387
Checks
PORO

Establish Extensive PORO.


Confirm if you can action the request

If you do not have access to process credit/debit cards or update requests and you are on an inbound call, warm transfer to D-1 on x92140.

Check if the caller is the cardholder

Only the card holder can set up or modify a credit/debit card direct debit.

This functionality is not available via online services for agents or over the phone for agents.

Procedure Steps
Information on card payment
Information

From 1 January 2025 any debit card payments made will have no surcharge/fee applied.

Reversal of debit card payments processed prior to 1 January 2025 will require the reversal of the surcharge/fee.

Advise the taxpayer:

Visa, MasterCard and American Express cards are accepted

card payment fees apply. Refer to Card terms and conditions

 on the ATO website for details. The fee payable and percentage will be advised prior to confirming payment

payment amounts must be a

minimum of $10

maximum of $20,000,000

the ATO does not store card details. Call recording is stopped to ensure card details are not stored.

If the taxpayer requires information on claiming a deduction for a card payment fee, go to 'Card payment fees' in Other deductions.


Review credit/debit card details
Information

Under no circumstances should credit/debit card details be provided in writing. Card details can only be provided verbally or by using ATO online services.

Where a document attached to a Siebel activity contains card details, complete the taxpayers request and then escalate

 to your coach/manager to have the card details redacted.

If unavailable, complete a non-phone escalation

 with a priority of ASAP.

You will need to add a new card before you can set up a credit/debit card direct debit payment plan in ICP.

Complete the steps in the following table to add card details when:

setting up a new direct debit payment plan

a new card number is advised

existing card is unusable and needs to be replaced.

Step	Action


1

	

Check if the caller is the cardholder. If:

yes, go to step 2

no, advise the agent/third party

this functionality is not available to you

only the cardholder can create or modify a credit/debit card direct debit

you will have view only access.




2

	

Open ICP and select Payment methods from the taxpayer menu.

If the taxpayer is paying with a:

new card, go to step 4

existing stored card, go to step 3.




3

	

Check for a card unusable indicator. If:

present,
the card can no longer be used for this and future direct debits and needs to be replaced
remove the unusable card, and
 go to step 4
not present, check if the card has expired or will it soon expire. If
yes, the card details will need to be updated
select the card and modify the details
go to step 8
no, go to step 5.



4

	

Select Add card.




5

	

Manually pause the recording to prevent collection of sensitive information as below:

right-click the AIM icon


select

Pause Monitoring, and

Stop button in the Voice Authentication (VA) dashboard in the Communication toolbar.

Warning

If the call recording cannot be paused:

end the call
enter into break 6
call the taxpayer back.

Notify your manager so your adherence file can be adjusted.

Advise the taxpayer, call monitoring has stopped to ensure card details are not recorded.




6

	

If:

confirming existing card details, confirm the card details on file

adding new card details,

enter the details in the following fields

Cardholder name

Card number

Expiry month and year

Enter CCV.

select Save.




7

	

Manually resume recording as follows:

right-click the AIM icon

select

Resume Monitoring, and

Start button in the VA dashboard in the Communication toolbar to enable voice authentication.




8

	

If you are adding a new card for a new direct debit or using an already existing card for the first time, Issue the Direct debit - issue service agreement

 letter.

Modify credit/debit card details

Modify card details when a card name and/or expiry date needs updating.

Complete the steps in the following table to modify an existing stored card.

Information

There is no need to cancel pending payments for an active payment plan if the taxpayer is updating their card details for direct debit.

Step	Action



1

	

Go to Siebel.




2

	

Open ICP and select Payment methods from the taxpayer menu.

Select Update for the relevant card.




3

	

Manually pause the recording to prevent collection of sensitive information as below:

right-click the AIM icon


select

Pause Monitoring, and

Stop button in the Voice Authentication (VA) dashboard in the Communication toolbar.

Advise the taxpayer, call monitoring has stopped to ensure card details are not recorded.

Warning

If the call recording cannot be paused:

end the call
enter into break 6
call the taxpayer back.

Notify your manager so your adherence file can be adjusted.




4

	

Update the name and/or expiry date.


5 	

If there is more than one payment plan linked to the card, reauthorise each payment plan listed.

select the reauthorise pill for the relevant payment plan, (a new window will open directing you to the payment plan screen)
the CVC will be required to be input
select Save, this completes the reauthorisation process.



6

	

Manually resume recording as follows:

right-click the AIM icon

select

Resume Monitoring, and

Start button in the VA dashboard in the Communication toolbar to enable voice authentication.




7

	

Select Save.

Cancel the direct debit
Task 1 - Check credit card linked to the payment plan

Use the following table to confirm the next action.

Information
There is a known system issue impacting the ability to view and modify plans for some taxpayers. Refer to Known issues and workarounds.



If the taxpayer wants to cancel the direct debit as a payment method...	Then...
for one or more (but not all) instalments	

modify the payment plan.

 Ensure you:

select Input reason: Taxpayer requested change
confirm the details with the taxpayer over the phone or issue a manual letter
add a note.


This is the end of this procedure.




for all instalments and change plan to another payment method

	

go to task 2 cancel and re-key the payment plan with new payment method.


due to a debt being paid off early	

review SOA in ICP to

confirm no outstanding debt on account

check if there is a future debt liability payable

advise the taxpayer

current balance of their accounts

if applicable, details of outstanding and future debt liabilities and the payment due dates

if their account does not show a new overdue debt within 32 days from when the debt was paid

the payment plan will finalise automatically

no further direct debits will process

add a note.


Information

There is a known system issue only for direct debits with credit card details. Taxpayers are still receiving SMS instalment reminders:

after their plan has been paid out early, and
prior to the system automatically updating to Arr-Completed.

If the taxpayer is affected by this issue, go to Delivery preference

 and select Cancel instalment reminder.

This is the end of the procedure.

Task 2 - Cancel a payment plan in ICP (debt trained staff only)
Step	Action


1

	

Go to Siebel.




2

	

Open ICP and select:

Payment plans from the Taxpayer menu

Payment plan ID from the Payment plan list

Modify payment plan.




3

	

Change the following:

Status:

Active to cancelled, or

Default to Cancelled.

Reason code:

Taxpayer req new arrangement

Taxpayer circumstances - other recovery.

Or

Status: Pending to Cancelled

Reason code: Arrangement not required.




4

	

Select Next.




5

	

Did you receive an ICP error? If:

yes, check if the account balance is showing no outstanding debt. If
yes
this is not a system issue
refer to debt being paid off early
this is the end of this procedure
no, go to System issues



no,
select Save
go to step 6.



6

	Re-key the payment plan with the original terms and conditions.

Delete a credit debit card

When deleting a card that is linked to one or more payment plans you need to:

add a new card first, via the Payment Methods screen. Return to the Payment Plan screen to select the newly added card, or
cancel and re-key the payment plan, if using a different payment method (refer to task 2).
 
-------


-------
Cancel or modify existing payment plan | Enterprise Knowledge Management
https://ekm/fo/fs/isc/payment-arrangement/cancel-or-modify-existing-payment-plan

 
Cancel or modify existing payment plan

How to cancel or modify existing payment plan in ICP.

Last published 28 January 2026

Favourite Notes Collapse all 
Background

This page shows you how to cancel or modify an existing payment plan.

Recent updates
28/01/2026	Update to 'ICP modify payment plan instalments', Step 1.	SD-101391
03/12/2025	Updates throughout the page.	SD-100318
06/11/2025	Added step 7 to 'ICP cancel payment arrangement'.	SD-98435
Procedure Steps

If the taxpayer wants to change an existing payment plan to a direct debit payment plan:

cancel the current payment plan, and

add a new payment plan.

ICP modify payment plan instalments
Step	Action
1	

In ICP select Payment plan from the Client menu (this will open a new window).

Select Modify next to the relevant payment plan, the Modify payment plan tab will display.  

There is a known system issue impacting the ability to view and modify plans for some taxpayers. Refer to Known issues and workarounds



2	

In the Arrangement details tab complete the following:

leave Status as Arr Active or Arr Arrears
select Input reason: 
Taxpayer Requested change, or
Tax Agent Initiated
select Next.

3	

In the Payment schedule tab, select:

the instalment you wish to change

Modify, update the instalment details as required, and

Save.

Working in order of the instalment due dates, repeat for each instalment you want to modify.  


4	

Once you have finished modifying instalments and the payment plan changes have been saved: 

on the Payment plans screen expand the relevant payment plan using the expand arrow
review the Arrangement details and Payment schedule.

Confirm all instalments appear correctly or repeat the steps above to modify as required.


5	

Confirm the details with the taxpayer over the phone. 

Information alert:
The system will not automatically send a modify arrangement letter.  
ICP cancel payment arrangement
Information

For instructions on known system issues preventing cancellation of payment plans with a direct debit, refer to the Cancel the direct debit section in Actioning a Direct debit (credit/debit card).


 Step	Action
 1	

In ICP select Payment plan (new window will open) from the Client menu.

Select Modify next to the relevant payment plan, the Modify payment plan tab will display.

Information

The ATO requires 3 business days' notice to add or cancel a scheduled payment via FIA.

Credit/debit cards can be cancelled the day before the scheduled payment is due to be made.


 2	

Check if the taxpayer has direct debit instalments due today. If:

yes,

the plan cannot be cancelled until tomorrow

to have the plan cancelled the following day, either

escalate to a specialist via a non-phone escalation, or

keep your activity In Progress until the next day, and then

go to step 3

no, go to step 3.


 3	Select Modify and update the Status: Cancelled.
 4	

Select the appropriate reason code from the Input reason field drop-down menu.

The following list outlines the situation and the requirement.

Default
Taxpayer Requested - New Arrangement
Taxpayer circumstances - other recovery.
Pending
ATO initiated - New arrangement
ATO initiated - Other Recovery Action
Arrangement Not Required
Taxpayer Requested Change
Taxpayer Requested - New Arrangement
Auto Approval Not Granted.

Required approval

Taxpayer Requested Change
ATO initiated - New arrangement
Arrangement Not Required
ATO initiated - Other Recovery Action
Taxpayer Requested - New Arrangement.

Active

New percentage garnishee required
Garnishee Withdrawn
Arrangement Not Required
ATO initiated - Other Recovery Action
Taxpayer Requested Change
Taxpayer Requested - New Arrangement
Tax Agent Initiated.

Arrears

Arrangement Not Required
Arrangement Completed Successfully
Taxpayer Requested Change
Tax Agent Initiated.

 5	 Select Next and confirm cancellation.
 6	
Information

Cancelling a payment plan does not cancel the payment plan confirmation letter.

Cancel the payment plan confirmation letter

 where you need to prevent the confirmation letter from issuing.

For example, if you are cancelling the payment plan on the same day it was entered.




7

	If applicable, cancel payment plan instalment reminder.



 
-------



-------
Actioning a Direct debit (credit/debit card) | Enterprise Knowledge Management
https://ekm/fo/fs/sbsc/work-management-activities/accounts/payments-and-refunds/payment-enquiries-and-requests/actioning-a-direct-debit-credit-debit-card#early

 
Actioning a Direct debit (credit/debit card)

Actions required to add or modify direct debit details.

Last published 23 February 2026

Favourite Notes Collapse all 
Background

This page provides the actions required to add or modify direct debit details.

Warning

Do not take credit card details until after call recording is paused as instructed in this procedure.

Recent updates
23/02/2026	Change made in 'Review credit/debit card details'.	SD-101021
28/01/2026	Update to 'Cancel the direct debit', Task 1.	SD-101387
Checks
PORO

Establish Extensive PORO.


Confirm if you can action the request

If you do not have access to process credit/debit cards or update requests and you are on an inbound call, warm transfer to D-1 on x92140.

Check if the caller is the cardholder

Only the card holder can set up or modify a credit/debit card direct debit.

This functionality is not available via online services for agents or over the phone for agents.

Procedure Steps
Information on card payment
Information

From 1 January 2025 any debit card payments made will have no surcharge/fee applied.

Reversal of debit card payments processed prior to 1 January 2025 will require the reversal of the surcharge/fee.

Advise the taxpayer:

Visa, MasterCard and American Express cards are accepted

card payment fees apply. Refer to Card terms and conditions

 on the ATO website for details. The fee payable and percentage will be advised prior to confirming payment

payment amounts must be a

minimum of $10

maximum of $20,000,000

the ATO does not store card details. Call recording is stopped to ensure card details are not stored.

If the taxpayer requires information on claiming a deduction for a card payment fee, go to 'Card payment fees' in Other deductions.


Review credit/debit card details
Information

Under no circumstances should credit/debit card details be provided in writing. Card details can only be provided verbally or by using ATO online services.

Where a document attached to a Siebel activity contains card details, complete the taxpayers request and then escalate

 to your coach/manager to have the card details redacted.

If unavailable, complete a non-phone escalation

 with a priority of ASAP.

You will need to add a new card before you can set up a credit/debit card direct debit payment plan in ICP.

Complete the steps in the following table to add card details when:

setting up a new direct debit payment plan

a new card number is advised

existing card is unusable and needs to be replaced.

Step	Action


1

	

Check if the caller is the cardholder. If:

yes, go to step 2

no, advise the agent/third party

this functionality is not available to you

only the cardholder can create or modify a credit/debit card direct debit

you will have view only access.




2

	

Open ICP and select Payment methods from the taxpayer menu.

If the taxpayer is paying with a:

new card, go to step 4

existing stored card, go to step 3.




3

	

Check for a card unusable indicator. If:

present,
the card can no longer be used for this and future direct debits and needs to be replaced
remove the unusable card, and
 go to step 4
not present, check if the card has expired or will it soon expire. If
yes, the card details will need to be updated
select the card and modify the details
go to step 8
no, go to step 5.



4

	

Select Add card.




5

	

Manually pause the recording to prevent collection of sensitive information as below:

right-click the AIM icon


select

Pause Monitoring, and

Stop button in the Voice Authentication (VA) dashboard in the Communication toolbar.

Warning

If the call recording cannot be paused:

end the call
enter into break 6
call the taxpayer back.

Notify your manager so your adherence file can be adjusted.

Advise the taxpayer, call monitoring has stopped to ensure card details are not recorded.




6

	

If:

confirming existing card details, confirm the card details on file

adding new card details,

enter the details in the following fields

Cardholder name

Card number

Expiry month and year

Enter CCV.

select Save.




7

	

Manually resume recording as follows:

right-click the AIM icon

select

Resume Monitoring, and

Start button in the VA dashboard in the Communication toolbar to enable voice authentication.




8

	

If you are adding a new card for a new direct debit or using an already existing card for the first time, Issue the Direct debit - issue service agreement

 letter.

Modify credit/debit card details

Modify card details when a card name and/or expiry date needs updating.

Complete the steps in the following table to modify an existing stored card.

Information

There is no need to cancel pending payments for an active payment plan if the taxpayer is updating their card details for direct debit.

Step	Action



1

	

Go to Siebel.




2

	

Open ICP and select Payment methods from the taxpayer menu.

Select Update for the relevant card.




3

	

Manually pause the recording to prevent collection of sensitive information as below:

right-click the AIM icon


select

Pause Monitoring, and

Stop button in the Voice Authentication (VA) dashboard in the Communication toolbar.

Advise the taxpayer, call monitoring has stopped to ensure card details are not recorded.

Warning

If the call recording cannot be paused:

end the call
enter into break 6
call the taxpayer back.

Notify your manager so your adherence file can be adjusted.




4

	

Update the name and/or expiry date.


5 	

If there is more than one payment plan linked to the card, reauthorise each payment plan listed.

select the reauthorise pill for the relevant payment plan, (a new window will open directing you to the payment plan screen)
the CVC will be required to be input
select Save, this completes the reauthorisation process.



6

	

Manually resume recording as follows:

right-click the AIM icon

select

Resume Monitoring, and

Start button in the VA dashboard in the Communication toolbar to enable voice authentication.




7

	

Select Save.

Cancel the direct debit
Task 1 - Check credit card linked to the payment plan

Use the following table to confirm the next action.

Information
There is a known system issue impacting the ability to view and modify plans for some taxpayers. Refer to Known issues and workarounds.



If the taxpayer wants to cancel the direct debit as a payment method...	Then...
for one or more (but not all) instalments	

modify the payment plan.

 Ensure you:

select Input reason: Taxpayer requested change
confirm the details with the taxpayer over the phone or issue a manual letter
add a note.


This is the end of this procedure.




for all instalments and change plan to another payment method

	

go to task 2 cancel and re-key the payment plan with new payment method.


due to a debt being paid off early	

review SOA in ICP to

confirm no outstanding debt on account

check if there is a future debt liability payable

advise the taxpayer

current balance of their accounts

if applicable, details of outstanding and future debt liabilities and the payment due dates

if their account does not show a new overdue debt within 32 days from when the debt was paid

the payment plan will finalise automatically

no further direct debits will process

add a note.


Information

There is a known system issue only for direct debits with credit card details. Taxpayers are still receiving SMS instalment reminders:

after their plan has been paid out early, and
prior to the system automatically updating to Arr-Completed.

If the taxpayer is affected by this issue, go to Delivery preference

 and select Cancel instalment reminder.

This is the end of the procedure.

Task 2 - Cancel a payment plan in ICP (debt trained staff only)
Step	Action


1

	

Go to Siebel.




2

	

Open ICP and select:

Payment plans from the Taxpayer menu

Payment plan ID from the Payment plan list

Modify payment plan.




3

	

Change the following:

Status:

Active to cancelled, or

Default to Cancelled.

Reason code:

Taxpayer req new arrangement

Taxpayer circumstances - other recovery.

Or

Status: Pending to Cancelled

Reason code: Arrangement not required.




4

	

Select Next.




5

	

Did you receive an ICP error? If:

yes, check if the account balance is showing no outstanding debt. If
yes
this is not a system issue
refer to debt being paid off early
this is the end of this procedure
no, go to System issues



no,
select Save
go to step 6.



6

	Re-key the payment plan with the original terms and conditions.

Delete a credit debit card

When deleting a card that is linked to one or more payment plans you need to:

add a new card first, via the Payment Methods screen. Return to the Payment Plan screen to select the newly added card, or
cancel and re-key the payment plan, if using a different payment method (refer to task 2).
 
-------

-------
Payment and credit transfer | Enterprise Knowledge Management
https://ekm/fo/fs/sbsc/work-management-activities/client-requests/transfers/payment-and-credit-transfer

 
Payment and credit transfer

D-1, B-5 - Information and resources on how to action payment and credit transfers.

Last published 29 April 2026

Favourite Notes Collapse all 
Background

D-1, B-5

This page provides background information and resources on how to action payment and credit transfers.

Recent updates

29/04/2026

	Updated 'Transfer types' and 'Credit transfers only'	D-104201


26/03/2026

	

Updated Credit transfers only section.

	

SD-103233

Self Help
ATO website
Success Alert
Help the caller go to the page on the phone

This is a chance to educate the caller about self-help options, which may lead to:

using self-service in the future, and
a better taxpayer experience.

Taxpayers can obtain more information from the ATO website on:

Online services for agents - Transfer requests

 for tax agents
Online services for business - Transfers and refunds

 for business taxpayers
ATO online services - Request a transfer or refund

 for sole traders.
Info Alert
Information
Use our self-service any time - it's easy, free and fast. Refer to Self-help services.

Checks
PORO

Establish PORO.


The taxpayer must be authorised on the 'Source account' to initiate a transfer request.

Go to Locate a missing payment

 if the:

payment is located on the incorrect account, and
taxpayer is not an authorised contact.

Transfers involving Deceased Taxpayers (individuals and estates) - If the transfer involves a deceased taxpayer (including as a third party), refer to Deceased person - General information

 to establish PORO.

Pre-checks
Are you trained to action transfer requests?
	 And...	Then...


yes

	

the transfer relates to a credit card reversal, and

progress of return on the Income Tax Account

	

the payment form will need to be transferred to the next unassessed period

follow ICP to ICP full payment transfer – Unassessed period.



yes	 relates to any other reason	

confirm if the account checks have been completed.

If:

yes, continue with procedure

no

complete the payment and credit account checks

 to confirm if you can action the transfer request

if all checks are successful and no escalations are required, return to this procedure and continue.




no

	 	

transfer the call to D-1 or B-5 following the Skill sets escalation directory.



Lodgment Reminder Strategy

There may be instances where there are added amounts on the taxpayer's Integrated Client Account (ICA) for an activity statement with a Dispatched (DSP) status in IPS. These amounts are added as part of the Lodgment Reminder Strategy (LRS).

For more details, refer to Activity statements - Lodgment Reminder Strategy.


A DSP status will not affect transfers. Action transfer requests as per the below procedures.

Transfers involving Deceased individuals

Authority to represent a person ceases on that person’s death. This includes persons nominated under a power of attorney.

Previous representatives have no legal authority to access the deceased person's record after date of death. This includes the interim period the ATO awaits official notification of death. Tax Agents hold no authority on deceased individuals unless there is an LPR (Legal Personal Representative) present.

No transfer is to be actioned on a Deceased individual until Official Notification of Death documentation has been provided.

Credits/payments on these taxpayer types are considered proceeds of the estate. Lodgments for income earned post-death must be processed on the Deceased Estate Trust instead of the Deceased Individual if one exists. Credits may be transferred between the two entity types if the destination account is in debt. This may be at the estate’s request or internally requested.

Where a payment has been made in error, the transfer can only be completed if the payment will remain within the estate (e.g. Deceased Individual to Deceased Trust). If the destination taxpayer is not related to the estate, no transfer of credit will be permitted. If a payment has been made in error, further checks will need to be completed to confirm the payment origin. Treat as a missing payment and follow Locate a missing payment.


Operation Protego

Operation Protego activities impact taxpayer advice or treatment. Ensure you confirm the taxpayer is not identified for Operation Protego activities before proceeding.

Taxpayers impacted by Operation Protego activities can be identified via:

2022 Operation Protego Siebel Alert, or
taxpayer has a credit suppression and Siebel note or activity description referencing #operationprotego.

For suspected GST fraud and high-risk refunds that are not identified as Operation Protego, escalate for further investigation following Fraud and Criminal Behaviours.


In all other instances, continue with next checks.

GST at settlement

Credits in a GST Property Credit account cannot be transferred to offset an existing debt in any other account. The credits are automatically transferred into the ICA when the relevant BAS is lodged.

For example, there is a credit in the GST Property Credit account for the 01/12/2021–31/12/2021 period. This credit will automatically transfer to the ICA when the December 2021 BAS is lodged.

If a credit has not automatically transferred, only staff trained in GST at Settlement transfers can action these requests.

Specific checks and processes must be completed before and after the transfer. If they are not taken, the integrity of the GST at Settlement measures are undermined.

Confirm if you are trained to action transfer requests to and from the:

GST Property Credit Account, or
Purchaser GST Withholding Account.

If:

yes, and it is the
GST Property Credit Account, go to GST property credit enquiries

Purchaser GST Withholding Account, go to Purchasers and their representative's enquiries

no, transfer the call to B-6 skilled staff using Frequently used contact details.

Check for pending activities

Check Siebel for any pending activities with the Type field 'Missing payments'.

If the Missing payment activity relates to the transfer you are actioning:

link the activities using a service request (SR)

add a note

 advising transfer request
continue to assist the taxpayer.
Dishonoured payments

Refer to Review item - dishonoured payment in payment transfer

 if your activity classification type is:

Capability: ICP Maintain Account
Category: Review Item
Type: AS Dishonour Reversal.

If the taxpayer is authorised and you have located a payment, continue with next check in this procedure.

Transfer types
Payment transfer

A payment transfer may be required where a payment has been credited to the wrong account due to taxpayer or ATO error.

Partial payment transfer

A partial payment transfer may be required if a:

taxpayer has made a lump sum payment into one account, and the payment was intended for 2 (or more) different accounts
full payment was made and then system used this payment to partially offset another debt.

A transfer cannot be actioned for the purpose of a refund.

Payments can be transferred to accounts not in debt.

Credit transfer

Note: If the taxpayer is a deceased estate (individual/trust), you must only transfer credits to offset debits within the estate (e.g. trust to individual or individual to trust). Do not transfer credit to entities outside the estate.

A genuine credit is an amount which is raised on a taxpayer's account, resulting from a credit assessment (for example, lodgment of an activity statement or income tax return). A credit cannot be transferred for the purpose of a refund.

GIC credits are not genuine credits. If a GIC posting results in a credit balance, complete a reconciliation of the account to confirm the original credit or payment source. Credits that are not genuine cannot be transferred.

If the credit is:

not genuine, and you are
trained, action in accordance with Review Item - Invalid Credit (ESCP1185)

not trained, navigate to the taxpayer's ICP accounts and investigate the GIC role. If the GIC period is in credit with no payment or genuine credit transfer into the account
escalate

 the activity using the following values
Capability: ICP Maintain Account
Category: Review Item
Type: Invalid Credit
Interaction: Internal
Description: GIC period in credit with no payment or genuine transfer in
Status: UnAllocated
Assigned To: ENTERPRISE_Q
go to Unable to transfer in Outcomes
genuine, use the following table to take the next appropriate action.
Confirm if the credit...
	Then...



will be transferred to a third-party

Note: There is no legal requirement for a third-party credit transfer to be made in writing. This also includes credits transferred from wound up SMSFs.

	

check if the taxpayer, tax agent or authorised representative:

is aware the transfer is to a third-party, and
PORO

 has been completed on the source account.

Contact the taxpayer to obtain the following declaration from:

the taxpayer, ask them to 'declare the information given is true and correct', or
an authorised agent/representative, ask them to
'declare the information given is true and correct as confirmed by the entity', and
confirm 'they are authorised by the entity to give this information to the Commissioner'.

The taxpayer must agree to the declaration before continuing with the transfer.

Note: If actioning wound up SMSF credit transfers, the declarations have already been verified.

Contact the taxpayer for further confirmation if:

the taxpayer, tax agent or authorised representative is not aware of the transfer to a third-party, or
there are concerns from the actioning officer.

Where confirmation is received, obtain the following declaration from:

the taxpayer, ask them to 'declare the information given is true and correct', or
an authorised agent/representative, ask them to
'declare the information given is true and correct as confirmed by the entity', and
confirm 'they are authorised by the entity to give this information to the Commissioner'.

The taxpayer must agree to the declaration before continuing with the transfer.


will be transferred to an anticipated debt not displayed on the system
	

the transfer cannot be completed:

arrange for the credit to be refunded to the taxpayer
go to All other refunds.


is a PAYG instalment wash-up (PAYG instalment credit allowed)
	

if you are trained to action PAYG instalment wash-up credit transfers:

yes, action the credit transfer using PAYGI - wash-up credit transfers

no, action the transfer request using Identify and escalate PAYG instalments wash up.


is a CFB excess credit to be offset against older tax debts instead of refunded
	go to Account checks - payment and credit transfer.



is on the Critical Response Account
	

a written determination must be obtained.

Refer to the Review accounts section in Account checks - payment and credit transfer.





Is on the Global and Domestic minimum tax account

	

escalation from the P2 team is required.

Refer to the Review accounts section in Account checks - payment and credit transfer.


Procedure Steps
Credit transfers only

When determining the effective date for transfer, refer to Determine effective date of payment or credit transfer.


 Income tax account, if the credit source is:

a company or superfund original form: the effective date of the offset will be the date of offset. If unsure, refer to Frontline services support (FSS)

an Individual or Trust: the effective date is the 'NOA request' transaction effective date

Integrated Client Account: if you are reconciling an Activity Statement Payment Role, refer to Full or partial transfer - activity statement payment role.


Global and Domestic minimum tax: the effective date of the transfer will be the date the manual credit transfer request is created. If unsure, refer to FSS.





Payment role transfers

Check if there is an active Payment role for ICA or SGER. If:

yes, continue to action the request
no, action the transfer in line with
Transfers to SGER in ICP

Transfers to ICA in ICP.

All transfer request checks
If...	Then...

the transfer is to an insolvent account, and
you are not trained in insolvency
	

reclassify and reallocate

 the Siebel activity as follows:

Capability: Debt and Lodgment
Category: Debt Insolvency
Type:
Bankruptcy (individuals), or
Liquidation (non-individuals)
Notes: include the reason for escalation
Status: UnAllocated
Assigned To: ENTERPRISE_Q.

This is the end of the procedure.




the source and destination account is an Integrated Client Account tax bonus payment (ICA TBP), and

the destination account is an

IT partnership

external agency, and

the taxpayer is not an authorised contact on the source account

	

the transfer cannot be completed.

Refer to incorrect payments.




the transfer is to an existing debt, and
it is for a payment/partial payment transfer request only
	

if the source and destination accounts are both in ICP:

open a second ICP browser window by pressing Ctrl + Shift + K
continue to action the request.


transfer is to an anticipated debt/no debt currently displayed on destination account, and
it is for a payment/partial payment transfer request only
	

where the destination is an Income Tax account and the source and destination accounts are both in ICP:

open a second ICP browser window by pressing Ctrl + Shift + K
continue to action the request
transfer the payment/partial payment to the earliest Not Received period to prevent the payment from auto-refunding.



the transfer is:

a GST Property credit, or
to or from the
GST Property Credit account, or
Purchaser GST Withholding account
	

check if are you trained to action GST at Settlement transfers. If:

yes
and the transfer is to or from the
GST Property Credit account or is a GST Property credit, go to GST at settlement - Transfer GST property credits

Purchaser GST Withholding account, go to Transfers - Purchaser GST Withholding account

this is the end of the procedure
no
transfer the call

 to B-6. If you are on hold for greater than 2 minutes, advise the taxpayer you will escalate the query to the appropriate area
create an NPE to GST at Settlement. Include the transfer details and classify the activity

 as
Capability: Operations
Category: PROCESSING
Type: GST at Settlement
Status: UnAllocated
Assigned To: ENTERPRISE_Q
this is the end of the procedure.

the source account is Superannuation Holding Account special account (SHAsa)
	
Telephony

If the taxpayer would like to discuss superannuation, refer to Skill sets escalation directory

 and cold transfer.

Correspondence

If you are processing a Superannuation direct claim and you are:

trained in Direct claims

reclassify the activity

 as follows

Capability: Superannuation

Category: Superannuation

Type: Direct Claims

Status: In Progress

Assigned To: Your user ID

refer to Direct claim - ATO-held superannuation


this is the end of the procedure

not trained in Direct claims

reclassify the activity

 as follows

Capability: Superannuation

Category: Superannuation

Type: Direct Claims

Status: UnAllocated

Assigned To: ENTERPRISE_Q

this is the end of the procedure.


you are transferring records from a culled / inactive TFN to a new TFN
	

check if you are Taxpayer Identity Support Centre (CISC) trained. If:

yes, continue to action the request
no, and the request is for the
Income tax role
reclassify and reallocate

 the Siebel activity as follows
Capability: Operations
Category: Accounting
Type: Account Exceptions
Complexity: Medium
Status: UnAllocated
Assigned To: ENTERPRISE_Q
this is the end of the procedure
ICA role
reclassify and reallocate

 the Siebel activity as follows
Capability: Operations
Category: Registrations
Type: CISC Fraud Referral
Complexity: Medium
Description: Multiple taxpayers using one TFN case
Status: UnAllocated
Assigned To: ENTERPRISE_Q
this is the end of the procedure.

you are attempting to transfer into the First Home Saver Super Scheme (FHSSS) Account
	

you cannot action the transfer unless you are S-5 trained.

Reclassify the activity

 as follows:

Category: Operations
Capability: Processing
Type: FHSSS Processing
Description: FHSSS
Status: UnAllocated
Assigned To: ENTERPRISE_Q.

If the taxpayer would like to discuss FHSSS, cold transfer to S-5.

This is the end of the procedure.


you are transferring into the Excise Infringement Account, Non-Administrative Penalty role
	

check if advice has been received to action the transfer. If:

yes, action the transfer using the advice provided in the Siebel activity
no, escalate to FBI TSI ITX Excise

 for advice. Complete the following
Title: PIN paid to incorrect account
Product: Excise
Request Type: Advice or Issue
Description: include the transfer request details
Research Undertaken: include the payment details and To and From account details.

If the Excise form is unavailable, send an email to FOFBIExcise@ato.gov.au with the above information. Then reallocate

 the activity:

Notes: Escalated to Excise product, pending advice
Review Date: 5 business days
Status: System/Process Pending
Assigned To: ENTERPRISE_Q.

This is the end of the procedure.



requests are for multiple transfers from SG to another account as the result of a Garnishee being applied to an incorrect account (i.e. the SG debt has been paid out, or SG was never the intended destination, and
the payments are still being received
	
check in Siebel to see if Debt have issued an amended PRN letter to the Garnishee with classification:
Capability: Debt Case
Category: Enforcement
Type: Garnishee
If:
yes, continue with the procedure
no,
create an internal activity. Include the incorrect account details in the escalation:
Capability: Debt and Lodgment
Category: DEBT - General
Type: General Debt
Status: UnAllocated
Assigned To: ENTERPRISE_Q
Are you from debt and lodgment? If
yes, add a note using the Amend Garnishee PRN request template in the Notes fly-out tab
no, add a note using the Transfer request due to incorrect Garnishee PRN template in the Notes fly-out tab
continue with procedure.
Complete the transfer
Warning Alert
Warning
If processing a transfer and the amount is made up of individual credit / payments, you must action each posting and not as a single transfer.

Reconcile the source account ‘period’ to confirm the:

amount
effective date, and
appropriate transfer process to use.

Complete the reconciliation using the ICP reconciliation macro available from the BDA Hub.


Transactions should be reconciled in the following order:

Cancellations
Shortfall Interest/Penalty remissions/amendments
Failure To Lodge Penalty remissions/amendments
Balancing Transactions/Sundry Reversals
Refunds
Offset to / Transfer out
Listed Payments (i.e. payments that correlate with a liability)
Remaining postings (i.e. oldest credits/payments to oldest debts).

If the source is a payment:

open the Transaction ID, and

check application details and note what roles the payment form has been applied against.

If the request is for the transfer of a payment originating on the Activity Statement Payment role:

find the most recent nil balance ($0.00) in the running balance (if it exists), and

remove all transactions below that row. This will ensure you are reconciling credits that have not been offset towards existing debts.

If a request is for the transfer of a payment relating to a past period, and that payment has already been offset against an existing debt, you must first investigate the account to determine whether it is appropriate to proceed with the transfer. If you determine that the transfer is appropriate, proceed by moving the payment back to the Activity Statement Payment Role by using Full or partial transfer - activity statement payment role.


If the request is for a:

full payment, go to ICP to ICP full payment transfer

partial payment or credit transfer, go to ICP to ICP partial payment/ credit transfer. 


For all other transfer requests, refer to:

AIS to ICP manual payment and credit transfer


ICP to Super Surcharge manual full payment transfer


ICP to Super Surcharge partial payment or credit transfer


AIS to AIS payment transfer


GAS to ICP payment transfer


ICP to GAS payment/credit transfer.


Additional information from taxpayer

If you need more information to complete the request, contact the taxpayer. For:

Online services requests, go to Siebel - reply via ATO online services

all other requests, follow outbound contact.

If the taxpayer...
	Then...
can provide the additional information
	

continue to action the request.

If the request is for a:

Full payment transfer, go to ICP to ICP full payment transfer

Partial payment or Credit transfer, go to ICP to ICP partial payment/credit transfer.


cannot provide the additional information
	
add a note

 in Siebel. Include the information required to action the request
update the Siebel activity Status to Done.

This is the end of the procedure.

Miscellaneous Transfers
Transfer request is from Child Support Agency (CSA)

Go to Child Support Agency payment transfers.


Transfer request relating to Miscellaneous payments

Miscellaneous payments are payments not belonging on taxpayers' accounts or business systems. It is money held by the ATO for which it is accountable.
Go to Initiate payment transfers between ICP, AIS & misc accounts.


Payment source is IPRS credit card or IPRS debit card

Do not refund credit and debit card payments to a bank account. Refund the payments back to the originating card to minimise instances of fraud. It is important that we assess if a payment transfer could result in any portion of a card payment refunding after transfer.

If the taxpayer has indicated the credit card has been cancelled, replaced or expired, advise the taxpayer to approach their credit card provider and request a chargeback. The ATO cannot:

refund the money via EFT, or
process a reversal for cancelled, replaced or expired cards.

To find the payment source in ICP, select:

Account
Client calendar from Account menu
Received payments tab
Transaction ID for the relevant payment
Payment common fields tab
Source. This will display as either 'IPRS credit card' or 'IPRS debit card'.

If the taxpayer is requesting:

a refund of a card payment, go to Credit card reversals - escalation

a payment transfer that was made from an IPRS credit or debit card, use the following table to confirm your next action.
If the receiving account...
	Then...
is in debt
	

if it is:

equal to or above the payment amount, continue to action the request
less than the payment amount, continue to action the request as partial payment transfer only to the amount of the debt.

has no debt
	

the transfer cannot be completed.

Go to Unable to transfer.

Outcomes
Transfer completed

After the transfer is successfully completed, use the table below to determine next action.

If you...	Then...
were directed to this page from another procedure
	return to the relevant procedure.

have completed the necessary action for this taxpayer
	finalise the activity.



Telephony and correspondence - Miscellaneous amounts

Do not pursue or discuss this debt amount with the taxpayer.

This debt amount is raised for admin purposes only, where a refund has been released to a fraudulent account.

Unable to transfer
Request type...
	Then...
Online services
	
open the Notes fly-out tab and select the relevant template, (e.g. Portal reply agent - Transfer unsuccessful)
edit and copy/paste as required, and
send via unstructured secure message.


Go to your Siebel activity and add a note

 including:

transfer type
to and from accounts
amount
reason why the transfer was unsuccessful
requested by.

Update the Siebel activity and select:

the appropriate Finalisation Code
Status: Done.

Phone	
advise the taxpayer you could not complete the transfer and why
add a note

 in the Siebel activity detailing why you could not complete the transfer
update the Siebel activity Finalisation Code to reflect the transfer that was being requested, for example IT - CAC
Status: Done.
 

-------


-------
Late payment or arrears catch up payment | Enterprise Knowledge Management
https://ekm/fo/fc/flr/payment-negotiations-and-arrangements/late-payment-or-arrears-catch-up-payment

Late payment or arrears catch up payment

D-1 - How to respond to a taxpayer who can make a catch up payment for a payment plan.

Last published 16 March 2026

Favourite Notes Collapse all 
Background

D-1

This page provides information on how to handle a taxpayer who has missed a scheduled instalment or ongoing obligations.

The taxpayer may have the option to make a late payment or catch up on a missed payment depending, if:

the payment plan has an Arrears status

they are able to make a payment.

Recent updates
01/12/2025	Update under 'Known Issue'.	SD-91545
Checks

Establish PORO,

 if required.

Complete the Telephony payment plan - initial checks.


Scenarios
Payment plan pause period

A 30-day pause period will be introduced after payment plan creation. Therefore, a payment plan status will not update to Arrears or Default within the first 30 days of creation. Statuses can revert to Active or update to Completed during this period.

If a new plan is entered during an existing pause period then the pause period will reset, and the 30 days will start again. If the pause period has expired, then the plan/s will be monitored daily and allow for payment processing. 

The taxpayer should allow approximately 3 days for electronic payments to be received.

Arrears Status

When a taxpayer is not meeting the terms and conditions of their payment plan or plans, which includes adhering to all future payment obligations, the taxpayer's payment plan or plans may default. If there is no default, the new Arrears status and associated communications will help taxpayers get back on track and meet their payment plan terms and conditions.

The missed payment obligation can be located on the Arrears correspondence from the CCV view of Siebel and via Online Services for individuals, business and agents.

Any further instalment defaults or new overdue liabilities may permanently default the arrangement which affects the taxpayer's compliance history.

Arrears Outcomes

If the payment plan has an Arrears status, educate the taxpayer on the missed payment obligations including the terms and conditions of their payment plan.

When speaking to the taxpayer, check if they have the ability to maintain the payment plan they are in, or if it's time to renegotiate.

ICP functionality will continue to monitor the payment plans in Arrears for future payments. If the taxpayer brings their payments up to date, then the status of the payment plan will revert to Active again.

If the taxpayer has met their plan conditions and has an Arrears or Defaulted status, follow the further instructions under Known Issue below.

Defaulted payment plan

If an active payment plan has defaulted but payments have been received in line with the payment schedule. Check if all debts in all accounts had payment plans negotiated. All debts (including debts not yet due but visible on the account) must be negotiated into payment plans. If a debt within an account is not included in a payment plan, this will cause all active plans to default.

Known Issue

Some taxpayers have been paying their plans in line with their payment schedule, but their payment plan is being unexpectedly updated to Arrears or Defaulted.

This may be caused by:

specific account actions undertaken on their account on the same day their payment plan was entered, or
payment method is via direct debit from a credit/debit card but payments are not processing due to an unknown reason.

Enquiries are ongoing to check why these plans are being updated unexpectedly.

Action

Review the taxpayer's account for adherence to plan conditions. Check if they have made payments in line with the payment schedule. This includes payment of ongoing liabilities across all accounts and/or ensuring all accounts with a debit balance are under a payment plan.

If they:

did not adhere to plan conditions, it is likely the plan status is correct. The taxpayer should be advised to make the required catchup payments
have met plan conditions
check if any FTL/GIC or other penalty and interest remissions or payments/credits were processed on the day the payment plan was created. If so, it is likely this caused the status change
and the payment method is direct debit via credit/debit card, all their future instalments are showing as Inst-Paid in the instalment schedule however,  payments have stopped processing.

If the plan status is:

Arrears, cancel the payment plan, and re-enter a new plan
Defaulted, negotiate a new payment plan.

Note: If the payment method is direct debit via credit/debit card, check IIA tab for note dated in December 2025 with subject ‘Replace credit or debit card campaign’ or ‘Re-authorise credit or debit card campaign’. For Arrears, complete the actions on the IIA note and advised the taxpayer they will need to make a catch-up payment for the missed payment obligation.

Information

If the payment method is direct debit via credit/debit card and all the future instalments are showing as Inst-Paid in the payment schedule. Advise the taxpayer using the same payment method may cause the issue to reoccur.

If you...
	Then raise this as a...



identified a credit/payment/remission that was processed on the day the payment plan was created

	

known system issue via Debt Systems and Support.


Use the following values when completing the InfoPath form:

Enquiry Topic: Payment Plan BIM-28633
System: ICP
Description: <<insert inbound call Siebel activity>> known issue of same day credit on creation date

complete and attach the Transaction identification form.
This link will download a file




have not identified a same day credit/payment/remission on the payment plan creation date

	

new potential system issue via Debt Systems and Support.


Use the following values when completing the InfoPath form:

Enquiry Topic: Payment Plan in Arrears
System: ICP
Description: '<<insert inbound call Siebel activity>> unable to identify reason for arrears status'
provide any other research and analysis that has been collected.



identified a payment plan with payment method of direct debit via credit/debit card and all future instalments are Inst-Paid in the instalments schedule

	

known system issue via Debt Systems and Support.


Use the following values when completing the InfoPath form:

Enquiry Topic: Payment Plan incorrect instalment status
System: ICP
Description: <<insert inbound call Siebel activity>> – direct debits not processing and all future instalments showing as Inst-Paid.

In all instances, refer to Negotiating payment options

 when re-entering or negotiating a payment plan.

Procedure Steps
Payment processing times

Payments:

need to reach us on or before its due date
can take up to 4 business days to be received by us and to appear on the taxpayer's ATO account
made on a weekend, Australian national public holiday or after the processing cut off time on business days, will be processed on the next business day. 
Direct debit payment

Check for any pending direct debit payments following Payment plan - Modify payment plan

 and update if required. Discuss future direct debit payments with the taxpayer when checking if they can get back on track. Educate the taxpayer on the terms and conditions of direct debit as a payment method.

Transfer incorrect payments

Where the default occurred due to the incorrect Payment Reference Number (PRN) being used, transfer the payment following Payment and credit transfer.


Outcomes
If the taxpayer is...	Then...


unable to make the required payments

	

consider modifying upcoming instalments if the taxpayer's situation will be resolved in the short term.

Otherwise, if appropriate, negotiate payment options.





able to make the payment required to continue their current payment plan

	

if there is:

an open Siebel debt activity, assign it to your user ID

no activity is available, you must create one. Refer to Manually create a Siebel activity.


Update the Siebel activity:

Capability: Debt Case

Category: Collection negotiation

Type: Phone call

PORO: as appropriate

Notes: add a note,

 include any actions taken

Case ID/Project ID: if one exists, copy and paste the Case ID of the active debt case. Do not copy and paste the Project ID

Status: Done.

 
-------

-------
Payment in full or Payment plan - additional circumstances | Enterprise Knowledge Management
https://ekm/fo/fs/da/payment-negotiations-and-arrangements/payment-in-full-or-payment-plan-additional-circumstances

Payment in full or Payment plan - additional circumstances

Staff guidelines for payment plans with additional circumstances.

Last published 9 December 2025

Favourite Notes Collapse all 
Background

This page provides instructions for what to do next in situations where additional circumstances may apply to PIF or payment plans.

Recent updates

28/10/2025

	Updated to title of Excess and non-concessional contributions section.
	SD-98243
In Detail
Business Viability Assessment/Debt Serviceability Tool

If applicable, check if a Business viability/debt serviceability assessment request

 is required.

Wash up review item exists

This will only apply to taxpayers with an Income Tax Instalment role.

PAYG instalment wash up cases occur where the PAYG instalment details on an activity statement are processed after the income tax assessment for the same year has issued.

Where the system cannot automatically resolve a wash-up, a review item will be created with the below values:

Capability: ICP Maintain Account

Category: Review item

Type: WashUp Basic.

Where the wash up amount will clear the debt in full:

advise the taxpayer

add a note, making reference to the escalated wash up activity

update the Status: Done.

Where the wash up amount will not clear the debt in full, continue negotiations.

Taxpayer with financial hardship

Serious financial hardship occurs when payment of a primary tax debt will result in a person being left without the means to pay for basic needs such as:

food

clothing

medical supplies

accommodation

education for children.

If taxpayer has no capacity to pay the primary tax outstanding, or has other extenuating circumstances, go to Taxpayer facing financial difficulties or serious hardship.


Warning

You must gather capacity to pay information from the taxpayer and ensure outstanding lodgments are up to date before escalating to the Hardship team.

Enduring garnishee active

This applies to Outsource staff only.

If a standard garnishee is in place and payment is negotiated, the notice will need to be withdrawn. Outsource staff do not have authorisation to approve withdrawing a garnishee.

Consider the following:

negotiate payment, do not advise taxpayer if proposal is accepted prior to obtaining approval to withdraw the garnishee

where you deem the proposal suitable, contact support queues


discuss proposal and request approval for the garnishee to be withdrawn. If

withdrawal approval obtained

support staff will action the withdrawal

Frontline Operations Officer (FOO) will continue to input the proposal, and advise the taxpayer

withdrawal is not approved, FOO will inform the taxpayer of the outcome.

ECC, ENCC and Div 293 assessments

Excess contributions (ECC)

ECC determinations made:

prior to 1 July 2018, the taxpayer has 21 days to apply for a release of funds

after 30 June 2018, the taxpayer will now have 60 days to apply for a release of funds.

Excess non-concessional contributions (ENCC)

ENCC determinations taxpayers have (for both pre and post 1 July determinations) 60 days to apply for release of funds.

Division 293 assessments

Division 293 assessments issued:

prior to 1 July 2018, a taxpayer has 120 days to make an election to fund to voluntary release an amount

after 30 June 2018, a taxpayer has 60 days to make an election to a fund to voluntary release an amount.

Release authorities

For release authorities issued from 1 July 2018, a superannuation provider must send the Release Authority Statement (RAS) to the ATO within 10 business days. This timeframe starts on the day that the release authority is issued and ends when the RAS is sent to the ATO.

To confirm the amount the taxpayer has elected to have released by their super fund, check for ECC, ENCC and Division 293 related release authorities. Refer to heading Determine if an election has been received and processed and follow steps 1 to 3 in the Release Authority Issues and Payment not received for ECC, ENCC or Div293 election

 procedure.

If the release authority will:

clear the Division 293, ECC or ENCC in full,

exclude these amounts from the payment plan

if the debt consists entirely of Division 293, ECC or ENCC, update the review date to 10 business days from the date the release authority was given to the super fund

not clear the Division 293, ECC or ENCC in full, include these amounts in the payment plan.

Proceed to determine the appropriate payment arrangement option for the taxpayer.

For all other scenarios involving release authorities, check the relevant procedure for solutions.

Excess Transfer Balance Tax

The Transfer Balance Cap (TBC) is the limit on the amount of superannuation savings a taxpayer can have in 'tax-free' retirement income stream accounts.

If the taxpayer exceeds their TBC, we will send them an Excess Transfer Balance (ETB) determination.

If the taxpayer has received an excess transfer balance determination, they will receive an assessment for Excess Transfer Balance Tax (ETBT).

The ETBT is calculated:

on the notional earnings from the day they exceeded the TBC

to the end of the day they fully commute their excess (excess transfer balance period).

ETBT is due and payable 21 days after the assessment or amended assessment is served to the taxpayer. General Interest Charge (GIC) will accrue if any amount remains unpaid after the due date.

When the ETBT is overdue, the amount should be included in your whole of taxpayer payment negotiation. The taxpayer can enter a payment plan to pay this debt.

Natural disaster

If the taxpayer has been impacted by a natural disaster,

 if appropriate, consider:

remission,

 or

granting a concessional payment plan (including checking their eligibility for a GIC free payment plan

). For example, adding a 0% flat rate General Interest Charge (GIC) natural disaster accounting treatment.

Update the accounting treatment to ensure the taxpayer is identified as a natural disaster taxpayer, refer to Accounting treatment - circumstances for remitting GIC.


Penalties and interest

Discuss penalties and interest that have been/may be applied:

general interest charge (GIC) rates


failure to lodge on time penalty.


If appropriate, consider remission.


Director penalties

Superannuation Guarantee (SG)/PAYG withholding (PAYGW)/GST Director Penalty (DP) accounts do not accumulate GIC.

For multiple DP accounts:

identify the correct DP account by navigating to the director's TFN in the Director Penalty Summary screen from the related company, and
select the Statement of Account link.

Check if the linked company's SG Employer (SGE)/Integrated Client Account (ICA) is in an active or arrears payment plan.

If the company is...	Then...


insolvent (small business restructure, administration and/or liquidation)

	

the director is still liable for their DP amounts. Continue to negotiate payment for the DP account.




still trading and for current directors

	

where the company debt that has been included in a director penalty notice (DPN) is:

in an active payment plan
advise the director
that the company debt that has been included in a DPN is already in an active payment plan, and
once the company debt that has been included in a DPN is paid out, the DP will also be paid out
if payment plan is in arrears, determine if they can make catch up payment/s
if the director
wants to enter a separate payment plan, negotiate a payment plan on the director's relevant penalty account
does not want to enter a separate payment plan for the debt that has been included in a DPN, update systems

 as per Linked PAYGW/SG/GST DP Account option
not in an active payment plan, negotiate a payment plan on all outstanding amounts on the company's account
where the director does not want to enter a payment plan for the company, consider entering the plan on the DP account, only if this is the most effective collection outcome
ensure the director is provided pre-legal warnings as per payment plan unable to be negotiated or refused for the company debt.



still trading and for resigned directors

	

negotiate a payment plan on director's DP account only. Do not advise resigned directors that the company debt is in an active payment plan. This is a breach.

You must only advise the director of their individual DP payment plan conditions.

Warning letter or Point In Time garnishee

If the taxpayer:

asks why warning letter or Point In Time garnishee notice was issued, refer Warning letter and a PIT garnishee issued


needs more information and you are Frontline Services (outsource or internal) staff without garnishee skills, escalate to Debt Assist on x92203 or direct number 1300 466 859.

Unlodged activity statements

Where the taxpayer has overdue activity statements request lodgment by phone.


If the taxpayer has B, R, N, S or T forms due within the next 30 days or showing dispatched in IPS (as not auto finalised) and they want this activity statement included in payout figure or payment plan, then:

finalise their form

 in IPS
if you do not have access, escalate as follows
Capability: Operations
Category: Processing
Type: Activity Statement Maintenance
Notes: State the reason for the escalation, e.g. 'The taxpayer is entering a payment arrangement and the activity statement needs finalising. Unable to action, as no access to finalise GST role'
Status: UnAllocated
Assigned To: ENTERPRISE_Q.

The NPE service standard is 5 working days.

Deceased estate
If a deceased taxpayer estate exists, consider the request in conjunction with Deceased taxpayer debt estate.

Non-profit organisation

If the taxpayer is a non-profit organisation, consider the request in conjunction with Non-profit organisation guidelines.


Activity statement - Lodgment Reminder Strategy

Check in Siebel if a letter can be identified from an activity with:

Capability: Active Compliance
Category: Treatment
Type: Prompt
Description: Document Identification Number (DIN) for related activity statement.

If yes, the taxpayer is part of the Lodgment Reminder Strategy pilot. Refer to Activity statements - Lodgment Reminder Strategy

 for changes to PAYGW reporting on activity statement. This is to help reconcile the account and ensure the debt is correct.

 
-------

-------
Consecutive and concurrent payment plan guidelines | Enterprise Knowledge Management
https://ekm/fo/nn/051/consecutive-and-concurrent-payment-plan-guidelines

 

Consecutive and concurrent payment plan guidelines

Work types
Support materials
ATOlaw
Emergency
PORO
Support materials
Support materials
Consecutive and concurrent payment plan guidelines

Explanation of consecutive and concurrent payment plans for Frontline Compliance and Debt Assist staff.

Last published 21 October 2025

Favourite Notes Collapse all 
Background

The page is to guide Frontline Compliance and Debt Assist staff on the use of consecutive (one after the other) and concurrent (at the same time) payment plans.

Recent updates

28/08/2023

	

Minor update to 'When to consider concurrent payment plans'.

	

SD-70504

Checks
Before you begin

Before you use these guidelines, you should understand:

payment plan procedures available in Enterprise Knowledge Management (EKM)

PS LA 2011/20

 - Payment and credit allocation.

In Detail
Payment plans

There are 4 types of payment plans that can be considered for consecutive or concurrent payment plans. These are:

standard
review
special circumstances
scheme.
Payment plan options

When negotiating a payment plan with a taxpayer who has more than one debt, you should consider the 2 options for establishing the start date for each payment plan.

Option
	Details



Consecutive payment plans (one after the other)

	

Consecutive payment plans:

allow taxpayer to pay off one debt before making payment towards other debt type

will allocate payment to one debt type.

For example a standard:

payment plan is entered for superannuation guarantee charge (SGC) debt

ICA payment plan is entered into at the same time, however it begins at the completion of the SGC payment plan

income tax payment plan is entered into at the same time, and it begins at the completion of the ICA payment plan.

If in the above example the income tax debt was relatively small, you:

have discretion under PS LA 2011/20

 to allocate first payment to clear income tax debt before SGC debt

must consider each case on its individual merits.




Concurrent payment plans (at the same time)

	

Concurrent payment plans occur when the expected instalments are split across all debts owed by the taxpayer resulting in more than one payment plan occurring at the same time.

For example, ICA and income tax payment plans are entered into at the same time and occur together.

Both consecutive and concurrent payment plans are acceptable.

When to consider concurrent payment plans

Traditionally, most payment plans are entered consecutively as per the Order of allocation in PS LA 2011/20.

 However, if you determine a concurrent payment plan will result in a better outcome, you may set up the payment plans to run concurrently.

Examples of where concurrent payment plans may be preferable include:

entering into consecutive payment plans would result in a payment plan start date of more than one or 2 years into the future
you believe the taxpayer's ability to pay will change and you want to ensure all debts are monitored effectively. This may not happen if the taxpayer's circumstances change in the middle of a series of lengthy consecutive payment plans.

This is not an exhaustive list. Each case is different, these examples should only be used as a guide to assist you in making an informed decision.

Regardless of which payment plan option is chosen, PS LA 2011/20

 gives you the discretion to apportion the payments to achieve the best result for the taxpayer and ATO.

SGC liabilities were introduced into ICP in December 2013. Existing liabilities were converted to ICP in September 2017.

Examples

The following examples illustrate how this discretion can be applied.

Taxpayer has the following three outstanding debts totalling $65,000 and has agreed to pay $3,000 per month:

SGC: $12,000

ICA: $52,000

income tax: $1,000.

If your negotiation results in setting up a...	Then...



consecutive payment plan

	

Plan could be entered into the system as follows:

SGC payment plan keyed with a start date 01/07/2017 at $3,000 per month, the last instalment will be 01/10/2017
ICA payment plan start date 01/11/2017 at $3,000 per month, the last instalment will be 01/06/2019
income tax is to be paid in a single instalment on 01/07/2019. As a payment plan in ICP must commence within 12 months of being entered,
you could key a payment plan with monthly instalments of $10 commencing on 01/12/2017, and
ending in an instalment that includes the remaining debt and estimated GIC.

It may also be entered as follows:

income tax debt of $1,000 paid in full with the first payment on 01/07/2017
SGC payment plan
will commence on 01/07/2017 with a first instalment of $2,000 per month and subsequent instalments of $3,000 a month
last instalment will be on 01/11/2017
ICA payment plan
will be commence on 01/11/2017 with a first instalment of $2,000 per month and subsequent instalments of $3,000
last instalment will be on 01/06/2019
the small debt is paid relatively quickly while the larger debt is paid over a longer period. This enables the ICP payment plans to start earlier and the $10 instalments (due to the 12 month start date rule in ICP) are not required.



concurrent payment plan

	

Plan could be entered into the system as follows:

01/07/2017, $1,000 allocated to clear the income tax debt in ICP and $2,000 to the SGC debt
01/08/2017, $2,000 per month to the SGC debt and $1,000 per month to the ICA debt
01/12/2017, the SGC payment plan will finalise and the ICA payment plan can increase to $3,000 per month until it is paid in full.

Concurrent payment plan:

results in the income tax debt being cleared in the first month rather than waiting over 2 years
will enable the income tax case to finalise and the SGC and ICA payment plans to be regularly monitored by the system.
 
-------



-------
CEG Lodgment, Payment and Debt conversation guidelines | Enterprise Knowledge Management
https://ekm/ceg/isp/non-navigable/001/ceg-lodgment-payment-and-debt-conversation-guidelines

CEG Lodgment, Payment and Debt conversation guidelines

Guidelines when discussing lodgment, payment and debt issues with taxpayers

Last published 16 March 2026

Favourite Notes Collapse all 
Why Lodgment, Payment and Debt (LPD) conversations are important

Every interaction is an opportunity to have a lodgment, payment, and debt conversation with the intent to promote voluntary compliance, including lodging and paying on time.

These guidelines should be used by Compliance and Engagement Group (CEG) staff when discussing identified lodgment, payment and debt issues including the payment of audit raised liabilities with taxpayers.

Where possible, CEG staff will manage the initial LPD conversation and record the outcomes, including entering payment plans or facilitating payment in full where appropriate. Refer to Negotiating payment options

 for additional information. 

When engaging with taxpayers throughout your case, it is important to discuss the payment of any outstanding or new liability amounts and outstanding lodgments.

CEG staff having appropriate LPD conversations with taxpayers earlier in a case means we can take a whole of ATO approach to the collection of liabilities, while providing support to make it easier for them to lodge and pay on time and avoid penalties or collection action. 

Refer to CEG Payment conversation and escalation guidelines

 for further information.

We can assist taxpayers by providing information on actions they can take that enables them to better manage their circumstances.

If there is an overdue lodgment, debt or an upcoming payment date this should be addressed, where appropriate.

Before undertaking this work, you should complete the Lodgment, Payment and Debt conversations

 training.  Refer to Payment Thinking - Capability

 content for additional information.

Refer to your business line procedures for further information as required.

You can also seek assistance from your team leader, Audit leader, debt champion or contact Frontline Compliance (FC) support on x92199.

What information may support an LPD conversation

The information gained through profiling

will help you understand and support identifying what is relevant in your LPD conversation. This will help frame your conversation as you engage with the taxpayer to achieve the best outcome for their circumstances. Prior to this conversation, undertake the following:

1.  Check the following systems to identify overdue lodgments and payments:

Enterprise Client Profile (ECP)

.  Refer to Profiling a client - ECP

 for useful Frontline Compliance gadgets to identify lodgment status and history.
Siebel and Integrated Core Processing (ICP) will display existing debts on the taxpayer's account.
Identify all overdue debts (i.e. Integrated Client Account (ICA), IT, FBT, SG)
Excise debts are currently on AIS and, if applicable, can be viewed by loading the customs/excise gadget from the Payment dashboard in ECP. 
Not all debt cases are visible via the Siebel CCV.  In the Case Summary tab, use the following method to search for active debt cases:

Siebel Case Home page > select Cases tab > All Cases hyperlink to display case list
Select Query button > Go to the Tax file number (TFN) tab and enter the taxpayer's TFN > Press the Go button.  Any debt cases for the taxpayer will be visible here.
Check Siebel for natural disaster indicators, project code 'Drought/Bushfire/Natural disaster'.  ICA or IT account, if natural disaster, will also have a GIC-SUSP-ADJ (accrual of GIC suspended or adjusted) indicator.  Do not raise the issue of any overdue liabilities in this period. Record a note in Siebel

.

 2.  Where an existing liability is confirmed, check Siebel and ICP to identify any debt case activity and notes relating to:

payment plan
defaulted arrangement
legal action
wind up action
issue of director penalty notice (DPN).
Existing liability

Refer to the following table for next steps:

 Where there is an ....	 then ....
existing liability and meets at least one of the criteria in the guide
	escalate to Frontline Compliance:  CEG Payment conversation and escalation guidelines.



existing liability and current payment plan in place 
	where there is no increase to the existing liability resulting from your case, no further action is required. 

existing liability under active management by Frontline Compliance 
	contact Frontline Compliance via 131 142 or the FC case owner directly to discuss next actions required.

existing liability not under active management by Frontline Compliance
	discuss the existing liability and payment during your initial phone call and/or visit.

Raising the existing liability and payment issue during the initial phone call/visit may prompt action to:

make payment in full or in part
explore avenues to secure funds to pay their liability (e.g. seek finance, sell assets), or
assess their financial position in order to enter into a payment plan.
How to start an LPD conversation

At any point, a conversation with a taxpayer can provide an opportunity to discuss:

their obligations (current, due shortly and overdue)
how they can find related information on ato.gov.au
how to self-serve using Online Services (individual, agent or business) or
other assistance available (ATO Online services

 provides more information).

Some examples of ways to start an LPD conversation:

I noticed some of your lodgments are overdue. When will you be lodging those? Do you need information on how to bring them up to date?
Are you aware there is an overdue amount on your account? Would you like to have a look at that and discuss it?
Do you have access to ATO online services? You can use this to lodge your activity statements and keep track of your obligations, would you like more information?
If you can't pay the full amount now did you know you can enter a payment plan through our self-help options? I can show you how/see if I can help set that up for you.
If you are having difficulty with your records, have you considered seeking assistance?
Depending on the outcome of this case you may have an amount owing. Taking into consideration your current circumstances, have you considered how you would manage this? 

Tax agent / authorised representative

I noticed some of your clients' lodgments are overdue. Is there anything I can assist you with to help bring them up to date?
Are you aware that your client also has an overdue amount on their account? Do you need to discuss any of the support options they might be able to access?

For information and resources refer to the ATO managing inappropriate taxpayer behaviour framework including the Handling inappropriate taxpayer behaviour

. 

Lodgment

It is important that lodgments are up to date. This also includes notifying the ATO of when a return is not necessary

. Even if a taxpayer cannot pay it is important to lodge. This provides the ATO with a fuller picture of their situation and provides them with certainty that can be used to plan and manage their circumstances.

Information on how to lodge

 and support to lodge and pay

 is available; failure to meet obligations may result in a penalty

 being applied.

Payment

When a payment is not made on time a taxpayer will have a debt. There are several options available to make payments. General interest charge (GIC) will be applied on any overdue amounts. The GIC increases each day until the debt is paid in full. See How to pay.


Payment in full is expected and should always be discussed as an option before setting up a payment plan.

When discussing payment options it is important to gain an understanding of:

Whether they can pay the liability/amount in full and if they can't or are proposing not to, then why not?
Have they considered all their options to enable them to pay in full?
If the liability is for a company, do the directors personally have the capacity to obtain finance to pay the liability?

Where payment in full cannot be made consider:

tailoring to consider their circumstances
meeting their ongoing lodgment and payment obligations.

If they are unable to pay in full, consider an upfront payment when entering a payment plan, conversation examples include:

We find many people pay a significant amount upfront, so they're not paying much interest on top of what they already owe.
We find many people start by paying off a third of their debt upfront. That would come to $X you'd be paying off today.

Refer to Payment plan guides

 and Negotiating payment options

 for instructions on creating payment plans. 

Referred to external collection agency

To confirm if the taxpayer has been referred to an external collection agency (ECA), proceed to Confirmation of external collection agency referral

.

If the taxpayer referred has an active audit case or is facing potential audit action, proceed to Withdraw an ECA debt referral case

. 

 
Other payment options

Payments are to be made by credit card, and/or direct debit where possible. Where payment in full cannot be made, a discussion on payment options needs to occur.

Direct debit is the ATO's preferred method for the payment of overdue liabilities by instalments and should be encouraged in all payment plan negotiations.

Refer to Payment plan guides

 and Negotiating payment options

 for instructions on creating payment plans. 

General interest charge (GIC)

You need to advise the taxpayer that GIC accrues from the due date of a liability until that amount is paid in full. GIC will be calculated and included in any payment plan granted unless the taxpayer is eligible for a GIC concession.

GIC incurred on or after 1 July 2025 is not deductible, refer to Denying deductions for ATO interest charges

 for further information.

GIC rates are reviewed quarterly. Current rates are available at ato.gov.au/General interest charge (GIC) rates

.

For GIC and Shortfall interest charge (SIC) remission requests refer to CEG payment conversation and escalation guidelines

.

Considerations for making a payment plan

Consider if they have any of the following:

an existing payment plan
legal documents received from a court in relation to overdue debts
an active debt case owner (auto system HRPN & HRPNQ are not case owners).

If yes, continue to Escalate to Frontline Compliance

.

Authorisation may be required to continue action for payment plans. Follow Authorisations and delegations

 to Payment Plan - Approve or Payment Plan - Refuse.

Superannuation guarantee charge (SGC) debt

Advise the taxpayer the SGC component

 of the debt, raised as a result of the audit or an existing SGC debt prior to the audit, is considered priority and must be paid before other debts.

Meeting future obligations

Ensure taxpayers are aware that a condition of any payment plan is that future obligations must be lodged and paid on time. As such a payment plan should:

be tailored to consider their circumstances
provide the ability to meet their ongoing lodgment and payment obligations.

They must also be made aware of any upcoming payment due dates (i.e. activity statement, income tax, fringe benefits tax), and advised they must be paid on time and in full, as they are not included in their payment proposal.

Consider their lodgment/payment cycles for:

activity statements (AS)
income tax (IT)
fringe benefits tax (FBT).

Encourage them to engage with us early

 if they need help with their lodgment and payment obligations.

If you can't obtain payment or payment plan
Debt is less than $200,000 and taxpayer cannot agree to payment plan	

Advise they can enter a payment plan using the following methods:

ATO online services (individuals and sole traders)
Online services for business
Contact 13 28 65 for Individual and Sole Trader Self-Help Service for automated payment plan
Contact 13 72 26 for ATO Business Direct Self-Help Service for automated payment plan.



Debt is more than $200,000 and taxpayer cannot agree to payment plan

	

Refer to Frontline Compliance via warm transfer 92140 or provide external number 1300 466 859. 

Recommend use of the payment plan estimator

 to work out a plan they can afford.




Tailored support for taxpayers experiencing vulnerability

For example:

illness
financial hardship
family violence, or 
digital exclusion.
	

Tailored support for taxpayers experiencing vulnerability


Financial difficulties and serious hardship considerations





Taxpayer refuses to discuss, can't or won't make a payment or a payment proposal

	

There may be situations where the taxpayer:

will not discuss the debt and payment issue
won't make a payment proposal, or
disputes the debt.

In these situations, and depending on the reasons given, if any, advise that further recovery action

 may take place.

Record appropriate notes outlining their position.




Taxpayer intends to dispute the debt

	

Identify the debts in question and the reasons for the dispute. If they are considering lodging an objection discuss the following:

What are they disputing/objecting to - the total debt or the penalties only?
All debts, including debts subject to dispute, are expected to be paid in full by the due date. If the dispute is resolved in favour of the taxpayer, the ATO will refund the overpaid amount
If they choose not to pay be the due date, GIC will accrue
Recovery action may be undertaken at any time to collect unpaid debts that are not in an active payment plan. This may include amounts in dispute
They may be able to enter into a 50/50 arrangement if they meet the conditions per PS LA 2011/4

 . This arrangement will minimise their exposure to the GIC on the disputed debt and may result in recovery action being deferred.

Record the discussion and their reasons for disputing the debt in your case notes.

To add an indicator refer to SB - Intention to dispute indicator

.



Record LPD conversations

To record the outcome of taxpayer conversations, create a Siebel Note

 selecting:

Type: General 
Subtype: Lodgment/payment conversation
Summary: Debt conversation

Note: For the case validation tool (CVT) to recognise a debt conversation has occurred, the word 'Debt' must be the first word used in the Note Summary field.

The following should be considered when recording conversations:

Education provided to taxpayers i.e. due dates, self-service lodgment and online payment options
Commitment to pay
Agreement for payment in full to be made
Discussion of a payment plan, if appropriate, and whether actioned or referred in adherence with below referral guidelines
Future lodgment obligations.
Escalation to Frontline Compliance

Where possible, it is expected CEG staff will manage initial LPD conversations and record the outcomes, including entering payment plans or facilitating payment in full where this is appropriate.

If you are unsure if an arrangement should be granted or need assistance, discuss with your team leader, debt champion or contact FC Support on 92199. 

Refer to your business line procedures for further information as required.

When to escalate to Frontline Compliance:

Staff don't have the expertise to action a payment plan
Outside your Authorisations and delegations

Payment plans where the taxpayer has an existing payment plan and wants to negotiate inclusion of the audit liability
There is an assigned debt case owner (auto system HRPN & HRPNQ are not case owners)
Sophisticated client (ECP client experience is Public Multinational Business, Privately Owned and Wealthy Groups, APRA regulated Superannuation Fund, Not for Profit)
Legal action (Siebel debt case project)
GIC/SIC remission requests
BSL processes direct you to escalate to FC.

There are situations where a tailored solution may be required, see CEG payment conversation and escalation guidelines

 for relevant circumstances.

Additional resources

Guidelines	
CEG Payment conversation and escalation guidelines


Taxpayer assistance	
If you disagree with an ATO decision

Understand and manage

Record keeping for business

Business viability assessment tool


Lodgment	
How to lodge your tax return

 
Support to lodge and pay 

Interest and penalties




Payment

	
Payment plan guide

Negotiating payment options

Consecutive and concurrent payment plan guidelines

Payment by credit or debit card

Request a direct debit

Government EasyPay

Payment plan estimator

Help with paying




Practice statements

	
PSLA 2011/14: General debt collection powers and principles

PSLA 2011/18: Enforcement measures used for the collection and recovery of tax-related liabilities


Version control

Change History

Page managed by CEG Governance, Practice & Support

. 

 Date	Details of change
 16/03/2026	Added important payment thinking messages at start, firmer language applied, GIC information expanded and support for taxpayer experiencing vulnerability. EKM functionality.




 
-------

-------
Principles for managing requests from Sophisticated Taxpayers | Enterprise Knowledge Management
https://ekm/fo/fc/flr/high-impact-and-agent-deferrals/principles-for-managing-requests-from-sophisticated-clients

 
Principles for managing requests from Sophisticated Taxpayers

For Frontline Compliance staff on completing High Impact and other work types for Sophisticated Taxpayers.

Last published 20 March 2026

Favourite Notes Collapse all 
Background

This page provides guidance to Frontline Compliance - Compliance and Recovery, Firmer and Legal Recovery and Strategic Recovery and Insolvency staff when completing High Impact and other work types for Sophisticated Taxpayers (SC).

These entities have the available resources to meet their tax obligations. This is both in terms of their:

financial capacity
knowledge of the tax and super systems and access to professional support.

SCs are identified based on the following taxpayer experiences in ECP:


Public Multinational Business
Privately Owned and Wealthy Groups
APRA-regulated Superannuation fund
Not for Profit.

Further information about the ATO's approach to SC segments can be found on Business.


Recent updates
20/03/2026 	Update under 'Remissions'. 	SD-101390
Self Help
ATO website
Success alert:
Help the taxpayer to go to the page while on the phone.

This is a chance to educate the taxpayer about self-help options, which may lead to:

using self-service in the future, and
a better taxpayer experience.

Taxpayers can obtain more information from the ATO website on:

Online services for business


Online services for Tax agents.


Information alert:
Use our self-service any time - it's easy, free and fast. Refer to Self-help services.


In Detail
Know your taxpayer

The Lodge and Pay operating model is based on the concept of Know your taxpayer. This ensures before any requests are actioned, you have a good understanding of the taxpayer. This includes:

the taxpayer's level of sophistication looking at the entity's industry (ANZSIC codes) and size
compliance history for lodgment and payment
understanding the entities roles and structures
identifying whether any of the entities have any pending legal action.

When you receive a case to action, refer to the Know Your Sophisticated Taxpayer guide

 to determine if it is appropriate to review the:

individual entity under Whole of Taxpayer, or

the wider economic group under Whole of Group.

This will provide you with the foundation in making the right decision in line with the Good decision making model. If related requests are located on any of the related entities within the economic group:

assign these additional Siebel activities to your user id, and

action as part of whole of group.

Related resources

Related resources to assist you to Know your taxpayer before making contact.

Taxpayer profiling guideline

Accounts - identify lodge and pay obligations (WOC)

About cash vs accrual

 (understanding the entities roles and structures)
Risk assessment.

Taxpayer is a Large Withholder

Some SCs are Large PAYG withholders. When performing profiling it is important to Know your taxpayer which can be individual or business that:

withheld amounts totalling more than $1 million in a previous financial year, or
is part of a company group that has withheld more than $1 million in a previous financial year.

For Large Withholders:

amounts withheld are paid, and sent electronically to us, twice a week

date for payment depends upon the day withholding took place.

As an employer, they have a role to play in helping their payees meet their end-of-year tax liabilities. They do this by collecting PAYG withholding (PAYGW) amounts from payments they make to:

their employees
other workers, such as contractors, that they have voluntary agreements with businesses that do not quote their ABN.

You may be required to complete an account reconciliation to ensure all the PAYGW obligations are up to date.

Complete PAYGW checks as per Large withholder withholding review.


Related resources
Large withholder withholding review


Large and consolidated - initial checks


View if large or consolidated

Large taxpayer manager checks

PAYGW reporting cycles

Update PAYGW lodgment cycle

Determine if phone contact required for large withholder

Attempt phone contact for large withholder


Large withholder - raise, revise or cancel PAYGW liability


Large PAYG Withholding Due Dates spreadsheet

Large PAYGW macro

Review item - PAYGW LGE Pymt Cycle Mismatch


Payment and credit transfer.


Payment plans
Information

This procedures enable frontline staff to consider requests from SC where the:

pre-serviceability criteria is met
combined debt is one million or less, and
high risk indicators are not present.

Complete the following actions to review the escalated activity:

review the notes on the escalated activity and any service request linked activity

identify why the request was escalated.

Follow Negotiating Payment Options.

 Use the below information as a guide.

Go to the relevant sections for recommendations for conversation and treatment of these taxpayers:

Pre-serviceability check and serviceability check point

Requesting financial information
Financial statement analysis.

Refer to ECP profiling - Know your taxpayer and Related resources below for more information.

Pre-serviceability check and serviceability check point

Payment plan requests for sophisticated taxpayers may be accepted if:

all the pre-serviceability criteria is met, and

you have considered the taxpayer’s proposal is appropriate.

Refer to Pre-serviceability checks and Serviceability check point in Negotiating Payment Options.


ECP profiling - Know your taxpayer

A red flag would be identified and financials to be requested in the following example.

Wealth Summary (Total Net Assets) = Negative Asset position of -$90,013.00.
The Companies Total assets was worth $1,385,481.00. It has an outstanding tax debt owing of $1,475,494.00.
Therefore the taxpayer has no working capital to refinance or borrow against. This is because it is in the red for amount of -$90,013.00.
Requesting financial information

Use this information if you determine ;you need to request financial information to make a decision.

Request the following information:

a proposal to pay for all amounts owed to the ATO in the shortest possible timeframe, while allowing for all future tax obligations to be met by the due date
details of events and contributing factors which has caused the debt to accrue
steps taken to mitigate the debt (such as, changes in operations)
any other additional information that may assist the ATO in assessing their proposal
the most recent statement for each financial institution account held (for 6 months)
the following documents for the current financial year to date and the previous 2 financial years
detailed balance sheet or statement of financial position
detailed profit and loss statement or statement of financial performance
details of any overdraft or loan facilities - including term loans and bank bill facilities, hire purchases and leasing agreements what funds are still available to be able to be drawn upon? how much is currently owing? how much are the monthly repayments? what is the limit of the overdraft facility?
list of aged creditors (30/60/90 days)
list of aged debtors (30/60/90 days)
projected cash flow statements for the term of the payment plan.

Online services is the preferred channel for sending and receiving information.

Promote the use of online services as a secure messaging channel. Refer the taxpayer to the ATO website:

Businesses - Online service for business

Registered agents - Online services for agents.

Information

Following discussion with the taxpayer, the required confirmation of financials etc., can be issued via unstructured secure message.


Inf-Request for financials

 can be edited and attached to the portal reply activity. Do not post this template to the taxpayer.

For transparency you can refer taxpayer to the Business viability assessment tool.


You may amend the requested time frames based on the taxpayer compliance history and behaviour.

If the taxpayer advises they cannot provide the financial information within the prescribed time frame:

negotiate 48 hours initially. If needed, consider the taxpayer and reasons provided, extend up to 7 days
seek advice from your coach or team leader and perform a risk assessment.
Financial statement analysis

Once the taxpayer has provided the requested financials statements, review them with the information obtained during your review of the taxpayer. This includes information from ATO systems, ECP and external resources, where appropriate.

By analysing the taxpayer's financial statements along with their profile, you can use it to:

highlight areas of potential risk that may require further consideration
determine if the taxpayer has the capacity to pay.
Table of definitions
Financials	Application
List of aged Debtors and Creditors	
Trade Debtors are also known as 'accounts receivable' and is shown on the balance sheet as 'current assets'.
Trade Creditors are also known as 'accounts payable' and is shown on the balance sheet as 'current liabilities'.

Checks:

days overdue

how is the taxpayer treating their trade creditors? This will guide considerations of a payment arrangement

are they prioritising payment to their creditors (for supply of goods, for example) in lieu of payments to the Commissioner?

have they extended the terms with other creditors?


Projected cash flow for the proposed term of the payment arrangement	
Used for providing a measure of an entity's liquidity by recording cash receipts and payments showing the net changes in cash for a given period.
Did the taxpayer include the payment proposal amounts to the ATO in their forecast?
Do payments and receivables match the debtors and creditors list provided?

Most recent statement for each financial institution account held	

Bank statements of the last three months can:

confirm if the financial position the entity claims to be in is accurate
show whether there are large sums of money being moved out of an account. This is to show a smaller 'cash at hand' in their payment proposal
indicate whether they are still receiving funds from trade debtors on a regular basis.

Detailed balance sheet or statement of financial position	
This gives you an idea of the entity's financial position. It displays what the entity owns and owes.
You should be able to identify if tax obligations (Super/PAYGW/GST) have been accounted for and included in their costs.

Details of any overdraft or loan facilities, including balances owing and monthly repayments	

Provides information on whether the taxpayer can

draw down to finance Payment in Full (PIF) or

manage larger instalments to reduce the payment plan timeframe.

Repayment amounts need to also be considered in the cashflow to accurately determine ability to

pay the ATO debt, and

meet their ongoing obligations.

It may also identify if there are inter- or intra-company loans. This

may also be found on bank transactions

may assist with considerations that ultimate holding company (UHC) or Group Head has capacity to pay the debts

is also relevant if the taxpayer is part of a Consolidated Group.


Details of current contracts / future works	
May provide information on the taxpayers current and future income streams.
Are these contracts finalised and/or guaranteed?
Are they conditional contracts (i.e. payment only when a service or defect target has been met also known as a retention fund usually is 10%)?
Can you match this amount on the cashflow provided (possibly through payment time frames or information from the contract deliverable dates?
Have they structured entities where one company holds the employees who are 'charged out' to other companies holding the contracts and assets?
Positive cash flow

It is important for businesses to have positive cash flow. Without positive cashflow, it is difficult for the taxpayer to:

run their business, and
be able to pay their bills on time when they have insufficient funds available at their disposal.

Therefore, the taxpayer will need to assess, revaluate and look at changing their business structures before it is too late. For example, some options available for the taxpayer is for the directors to:

inject cash/wealth into the business, e.g. director loans

look at

refinancing

obtaining a business loan

applying for or increasing an existing overdraft facility (if it is currently maxed out or overdrawn)

look at freeing up some capital by selling off some assets. The aim is to free up working capital to allow the business to be sustainable to

be able to continue to trade, and

have capacity to pay its bills on time or when called upon.

Negative cash flow

Negative cash flow is when a business spends more cash than it generates in a particular period. This implies the total cash inflow is less than total outflow from the following activities:

operating activities
investing activities
financing activities.

It is a prevalent situation for businesses in their growth phase as they need to spend money to:

fuel growth
acquire customers, or
set up distribution channels.

In such situation, the deficit should be supported by equity infusion, debt funding, or both.

Insolvent

A business is insolvent when it:

has no liquid or tangible assets that it can sell, borrow or refinance against, and
is not in a position to be able to pay when it is being called upon to pay.

If insolvent, the business should seek legal advice from an insolvency practitioner or specialist regarding managing debt.

 If you are unsure, seek advice from your coach.

The financials can safeguard the ATO from having to repay preference payments to the insolvency practitioner. This is because the financials show that the entity was viable at the time the P/A was negotiated.

Related resources
PS LA 2011/20

 - Payment and credit allocation
PS LA 2011/14

 - General Debt Collection Powers and Principals.
Remissions
Information

The remission procedure enables frontline staff to consider requests from sophisticated taxpayers where the:

request meets low value activity guidelines criteria, or
value of the request is $10,000 or less for each GIC and FTL penalty.

To consider remission of interest or penalties:

the taxpayer needs to have taken reasonable steps to try and mitigate the effects of the circumstances
we may also take into consideration special circumstances. For example, where a taxpayer
has a good payment history, and
is late on a one-off basis or on an isolated occasion.

Follow Telephony request - GIC, FTL, SIC remission or cancellation

 or Correspondence request - GIC, FTL, SIC remission or cancellation.

 Use the below information as a guide.

Go to the relevant sections:

Low value guidelines
GIC remission
FTL on Time Penalty remission
SIC remission
Related resources.
Low value guidelines

Remission requests for sophisticated taxpayers may be granted if the taxpayers request meets the low-risk and good compliance history guidelines. Refer to low value activity guidelines.


GIC remission

GIC may be remitted on Super Guarantee Employer Reporting accounts (SGER) in exceptional circumstances.

If an employer does not pay their employee's super on time and to the right superfund, the employer must:

pay the superannuation guarantee charge (SGC)
lodge an SGC statement with the ATO.

The liability is then raised and is reported in the SGER account. It is important to note that:

the SGC is payable by employers who failed to provide the prescribed minimum level of superannuation support by the due date

the amount is then collected on behalf of the employees by the ATO. This is to compensate the employees for their lost earnings to safeguard the employees retirement.

Considerations (for all GIC remission requests):

What has caused the taxpayer inability to be able to pay on time?

Were the circumstances unexpected and beyond taxpayer control? (e.g. natural disaster, unforeseen collapse of a major debtor)?

Was the delay in payment caused by the taxpayer actions or from failure to act?

Did the taxpayer act within a reasonable timeframe to reduce the severity and impact of the circumstances? For example, by

notifying the ATO

keeping the ATO informed

calling to negotiate a sustainable P/A, or

making voluntary payments.

Does the taxpayer have a good lodgment and payment history?

Was the late payment a one-off event (e.g. an isolated incident)?

Does the taxpayer have a history of making late payments including sending in requests for GIC remission?

Was the delay in payment caused by the taxpayer?

Would an ordinary member of the community who pay their taxes on time see the circumstances as fair and reasonable to grant the GIC remission?

When making your decision, consider the size and resources of the taxpayer have. They are likely to have in-house accountants, tax staff and external professional advisors at their disposal.

Is the taxpayer part of a larger economic group?

Depending on the amount and circumstances of the remission request, further profiling may be necessary to understand the economic group.

The groups resource may need to be considered when making the decision. It is important to check the group for additional unactioned GIC remission requests to action under Whole of Group.

In some cases, a call to the authorised contact may be required to

request additional information, or

seek further clarification to on the taxpayer's inability to pay. For example, to establish timelines of events.

Failure to Lodge (FTL) on Time Penalty remission

You should generally only remit the FTL penalty:

after the document is lodged, and
when an FTL penalty has been applied to the taxpayer account.

Considerations:

What has caused the taxpayer inability to be able to lodge on time?
Were the circumstances unexpected and beyond the taxpayer control? For example, they were unable to access to financial information due to
natural disaster
court case
collapse of a major debtor
them waiting on a private ruling.
Was the delay in lodgment caused by the taxpayer own actions from failure to act?
Did the taxpayer act in a reasonable timeframe to try and reduce the severity and impact of the circumstances? For example, by
notifying the ATO
keeping the ATO informed, or
calling to request a deferral or suspension.
Does the taxpayer have a good lodgment and payment history?
Was the late lodgment a one-off event? For example, an isolated incident.
Does the taxpayer have a history of
making late lodgments including requests for deferrals/suspensions, or
applying for FTL penalty remission requests?
Would an ordinary member of the community who lodges and pays their taxes on time see the circumstances as fair and reasonable to grant the FTL penalty remission?
When making your decision, consider the size and resources of the taxpayer. They are likely to have in-house accountants, tax staff and external professional advisors at their disposal.
Is the taxpayer part of a larger economic group?
Depending on the amount and circumstances of the FTL penalty remission request, further profiling may be necessary to get a better understanding of the economic group.
The groups resource may need to be considered when making the decision. It is important to check the group for additional unactioned FTL penalty remission requests to action under Whole of Group.
In some cases, a call to the authorised contact may be required to
request additional information, or
to seek further clarification.
SIC remission

SIC is a compound interest imposed on income tax shortfalls from 2004-2005 financial years onwards. An income tax shortfall arises when a debit amendment increases the taxpayer's income tax liability. SIC is payable on the additional amount of income tax, i.e. the tax shortfall (TSF) amount. The shortfall period is the period from the:

payment due date of the original assessment, or
the notional due date to the day before the Commissioner gives the taxpayer a notice of amended assessment (NOAA).

The SIC will need to be manually adjusted if:

a taxpayer lodges subsequent amendment, and
this subsequent amendment adjusts the same particulars as an amendment that has had SIC applied.

Considerations:

SIC replaces GIC during the shortfall period and is calculated at a lower rate than GIC.
What has caused the taxpayer inability to be able to lodge the correct information when the ITA return was due?
Were the circumstances unexpected and beyond taxpayer control? For example,
natural disaster
unforeseen collapse of a major debtor
the taxpayer was waiting on a private ruling.
Was the delay in lodgment caused by the taxpayer actions or from failure to act where the information was amended due to an ATO audit?
Did the taxpayer act within a reasonable timeframe to reduce the severity and impact of the circumstances? For example, by
notifying the ATO
keeping the ATO informed
advising
incorrect information has been lodged on the ITA return, and
an amendment will need to be lodged and sent in
calling in to negotiate a sustainable P/A
making voluntary payments.
The taxpayer is entitled to a remission of SIC where an early payment has been made.
SIC should be reduced by the amount of any interest on early payment (IEP) that the taxpayer is entitled to.
Does the taxpayer have a good lodgment and payment history?
Was the late lodgment resulting in an amendment a one-off event? For example an isolated incident.
Does the taxpayer have a history of
lodging the incorrect information
amending the ITA return, and then
sending in a request for SIC remission?
Was the delay in lodging the ITA return caused by the taxpayer?
Would an ordinary member of the community who pay their taxes on time see the circumstances as fair and reasonable to grant the SIC remission?
When making your decision, consider the size and resources of the taxpayer have. They are likely to have in-house accountants, tax staff and external professional advisors at their disposal.
Is the taxpayer part of a larger economic group?
Depending on the amount and circumstances of the remission request, further profiling may be necessary to understand the economic group.
The groups resource may need to be considered when making the decision. It is important to check the group for additional unactioned SIC remission requests to action under Whole of Group.
In some cases, a call to the authorised contact may be required to seek further information/clarification. This is to find out the taxpayer's inability to lodge the correct information when the original tax return was lodged.
Related resources

Good decision making model


Compliance model


ATO Charter


PS LA 2011/12

 - Remission of General Interest Charge

PS LA 2011/19

 - Administration of the penalty for failure to lodge

FTL penalty guideline


PS LA 2006/8

 - Remission of shortfall interest charge and general interest charge for shortfall periods

Frontline Operations Practice Note 2003/015

 - General interest charge (GIC) - Interest rate for calculating the GIC

Frontline Operations Practice Note 2005/011

 - General interest charge - Remission of general interest charge (GIC) which has been incurred but not imposed or notified within a reasonable time

Frontline Operations Practice Note 2006/001

 - ATO assistance for taxpayers affected by disasters.

Deferrals

Refer to the Know your Sophisticated Taxpayer Guide,

 Deferral and Suspension guide for Sophisticated Taxpayers

 and Deferral and suspensions

 to:

determine the risk associated with granting or refusing the deferral request
look at how the outcome would affect both the ATO and the taxpayer. This would include, but is not limited to

the risk of external reviews, complaints, and risk to the ATO reputation, and
for the taxpayer, the risk of

an unfair financial advantage
disengagement from these taxpayers
insolvency.

While considering the above information, you will need to:

ensure these requests are actioned separately for each taxpayer, as they are legally separate entities
still understand and evaluate any potential group level of the SC approach.

When deciding whether it is fair and reasonable to grant a deferral, consider:

the reason why the entity or their representative is unable to lodge on time

the value of the information provided in the document

the size and structure of the entity. Large corporate entities are more likely to have the ability and available resources to overcome circumstances that might affect their ability to not lodge by the due date

the risk to revenue

the entity's compliance history as a whole, that is

lodgment of taxation returns, activity statements and other documents

payments on time

previous dealings with the ATO

the length of time needed to lodge the document. A deferral will usually be granted where an entity

has a good compliance history, and

requests a short period of additional time to lodge

any other relevant information that includes the individual circumstances.

We generally consider it to be fair and reasonable to grant a deferral where the inability to lodge by the due date is reasonably attributed to exceptional or unforeseen circumstances. These include:

natural disasters or other disasters or events that may have, or have had, a significant impact on individuals, regions, or particular industries
impeded access to records (for example, records seized during a police search or retained as evidence in a court matter)
the serious illness or death of a family member, tax professional or critical staff member
considerable lack of knowledge and understanding of taxation obligations
system issues, either with ATO online services or the entity's business system.

Complete the following before you contact the taxpayer to advise of the outcome or request additional information:

assess the request following relevant
the ATO guidelines
EKM procedures
practice statements (PSLA), and
profile the taxpayer (including associated group/entities)
consider the risk.

If the taxpayer is a Large Withholder and/or Significant Excise Payer, deferral for payments of PAYGW, GST or Excise is not available. This is unless the company can demonstrate:


they do not have access to alternate sources of funding, and


that meeting their payment obligations would be a contributing factor in their becoming insolvent in the immediate future.

Registered agent requests

Registered agents can submit requests for deferral of:

lodgment, or lodgment and payment, via Online services for agents (OSfA)

using the lodgment deferral

 function, or

by completing a deferral application


payment only by completing Payment-only deferral requests for registered agents

 via OSfA.

To action requests received via OSfA for SGEs and Large withholders refer to Lodgment program deferrals - for sophisticated taxpayers.


Decision

Determine if the deferral request meets the criteria.

Narrate your decision:

include what you are recommending and/or approving
ensure the reasons for your decision are appropriately detailed. Include the following
lodgment and payment history of the entity and the economic group
specific impacts that have been provided
evidence.
Refer to Deferrals and suspensions

 to finalise requests.

Information alert:
Payment deferrals are generally a short-term measure to provide immediate assistance in extenuating circumstances.

If payment is unlikely to be made in full by the deferred due date:

a sustainable P/A may be more appropriate, or
consider a suspension of action to stop further recovery action from continuing or being considered.

Related resources
Deferral Suspension guideline

Large Business support

Lodgment and payment due dates

PS LA 2011/15

 - Lodgment obligations, due dates, and deferrals
PS LA 2011/14

 - General debt collection powers and principles
Frontline Operations Practice Notes.


Authorisation/delegation and approval

Where the request is outside your authorisation/delegation,

 you will need to escalate for approval.

Information alert:
There is no requirement to create a new/separate submission activity.

Activities with the Interaction field of Outbound phone and Outbound correspondence will not deliver via iWD, therefore must not be used to seek approval.


Follow the links in the work type procedure to escalate for approval.

 
-------





-------
Principles for managing requests from Sophisticated Taxpayers | Enterprise Knowledge Management
https://ekm/fo/fc/flr/high-impact-and-agent-deferrals/principles-for-managing-requests-from-sophisticated-clients

 
Principles for managing requests from Sophisticated Taxpayers

For Frontline Compliance staff on completing High Impact and other work types for Sophisticated Taxpayers.

Last published 20 March 2026

Favourite Notes Collapse all 
Background

This page provides guidance to Frontline Compliance - Compliance and Recovery, Firmer and Legal Recovery and Strategic Recovery and Insolvency staff when completing High Impact and other work types for Sophisticated Taxpayers (SC).

These entities have the available resources to meet their tax obligations. This is both in terms of their:

financial capacity
knowledge of the tax and super systems and access to professional support.

SCs are identified based on the following taxpayer experiences in ECP:


Public Multinational Business
Privately Owned and Wealthy Groups
APRA-regulated Superannuation fund
Not for Profit.

Further information about the ATO's approach to SC segments can be found on Business.


Recent updates
20/03/2026 	Update under 'Remissions'. 	SD-101390
Self Help
ATO website
Success alert:
Help the taxpayer to go to the page while on the phone.

This is a chance to educate the taxpayer about self-help options, which may lead to:

using self-service in the future, and
a better taxpayer experience.

Taxpayers can obtain more information from the ATO website on:

Online services for business


Online services for Tax agents.


Information alert:
Use our self-service any time - it's easy, free and fast. Refer to Self-help services.


In Detail
Know your taxpayer

The Lodge and Pay operating model is based on the concept of Know your taxpayer. This ensures before any requests are actioned, you have a good understanding of the taxpayer. This includes:

the taxpayer's level of sophistication looking at the entity's industry (ANZSIC codes) and size
compliance history for lodgment and payment
understanding the entities roles and structures
identifying whether any of the entities have any pending legal action.

When you receive a case to action, refer to the Know Your Sophisticated Taxpayer guide

 to determine if it is appropriate to review the:

individual entity under Whole of Taxpayer, or

the wider economic group under Whole of Group.

This will provide you with the foundation in making the right decision in line with the Good decision making model. If related requests are located on any of the related entities within the economic group:

assign these additional Siebel activities to your user id, and

action as part of whole of group.

Related resources

Related resources to assist you to Know your taxpayer before making contact.

Taxpayer profiling guideline

Accounts - identify lodge and pay obligations (WOC)

About cash vs accrual

 (understanding the entities roles and structures)
Risk assessment.

Taxpayer is a Large Withholder

Some SCs are Large PAYG withholders. When performing profiling it is important to Know your taxpayer which can be individual or business that:

withheld amounts totalling more than $1 million in a previous financial year, or
is part of a company group that has withheld more than $1 million in a previous financial year.

For Large Withholders:

amounts withheld are paid, and sent electronically to us, twice a week

date for payment depends upon the day withholding took place.

As an employer, they have a role to play in helping their payees meet their end-of-year tax liabilities. They do this by collecting PAYG withholding (PAYGW) amounts from payments they make to:

their employees
other workers, such as contractors, that they have voluntary agreements with businesses that do not quote their ABN.

You may be required to complete an account reconciliation to ensure all the PAYGW obligations are up to date.

Complete PAYGW checks as per Large withholder withholding review.


Related resources
Large withholder withholding review


Large and consolidated - initial checks


View if large or consolidated

Large taxpayer manager checks

PAYGW reporting cycles

Update PAYGW lodgment cycle

Determine if phone contact required for large withholder

Attempt phone contact for large withholder


Large withholder - raise, revise or cancel PAYGW liability


Large PAYG Withholding Due Dates spreadsheet

Large PAYGW macro

Review item - PAYGW LGE Pymt Cycle Mismatch


Payment and credit transfer.


Payment plans
Information

This procedures enable frontline staff to consider requests from SC where the:

pre-serviceability criteria is met
combined debt is one million or less, and
high risk indicators are not present.

Complete the following actions to review the escalated activity:

review the notes on the escalated activity and any service request linked activity

identify why the request was escalated.

Follow Negotiating Payment Options.

 Use the below information as a guide.

Go to the relevant sections for recommendations for conversation and treatment of these taxpayers:

Pre-serviceability check and serviceability check point

Requesting financial information
Financial statement analysis.

Refer to ECP profiling - Know your taxpayer and Related resources below for more information.

Pre-serviceability check and serviceability check point

Payment plan requests for sophisticated taxpayers may be accepted if:

all the pre-serviceability criteria is met, and

you have considered the taxpayer’s proposal is appropriate.

Refer to Pre-serviceability checks and Serviceability check point in Negotiating Payment Options.


ECP profiling - Know your taxpayer

A red flag would be identified and financials to be requested in the following example.

Wealth Summary (Total Net Assets) = Negative Asset position of -$90,013.00.
The Companies Total assets was worth $1,385,481.00. It has an outstanding tax debt owing of $1,475,494.00.
Therefore the taxpayer has no working capital to refinance or borrow against. This is because it is in the red for amount of -$90,013.00.
Requesting financial information

Use this information if you determine ;you need to request financial information to make a decision.

Request the following information:

a proposal to pay for all amounts owed to the ATO in the shortest possible timeframe, while allowing for all future tax obligations to be met by the due date
details of events and contributing factors which has caused the debt to accrue
steps taken to mitigate the debt (such as, changes in operations)
any other additional information that may assist the ATO in assessing their proposal
the most recent statement for each financial institution account held (for 6 months)
the following documents for the current financial year to date and the previous 2 financial years
detailed balance sheet or statement of financial position
detailed profit and loss statement or statement of financial performance
details of any overdraft or loan facilities - including term loans and bank bill facilities, hire purchases and leasing agreements what funds are still available to be able to be drawn upon? how much is currently owing? how much are the monthly repayments? what is the limit of the overdraft facility?
list of aged creditors (30/60/90 days)
list of aged debtors (30/60/90 days)
projected cash flow statements for the term of the payment plan.

Online services is the preferred channel for sending and receiving information.

Promote the use of online services as a secure messaging channel. Refer the taxpayer to the ATO website:

Businesses - Online service for business

Registered agents - Online services for agents.

Information

Following discussion with the taxpayer, the required confirmation of financials etc., can be issued via unstructured secure message.


Inf-Request for financials

 can be edited and attached to the portal reply activity. Do not post this template to the taxpayer.

For transparency you can refer taxpayer to the Business viability assessment tool.


You may amend the requested time frames based on the taxpayer compliance history and behaviour.

If the taxpayer advises they cannot provide the financial information within the prescribed time frame:

negotiate 48 hours initially. If needed, consider the taxpayer and reasons provided, extend up to 7 days
seek advice from your coach or team leader and perform a risk assessment.
Financial statement analysis

Once the taxpayer has provided the requested financials statements, review them with the information obtained during your review of the taxpayer. This includes information from ATO systems, ECP and external resources, where appropriate.

By analysing the taxpayer's financial statements along with their profile, you can use it to:

highlight areas of potential risk that may require further consideration
determine if the taxpayer has the capacity to pay.
Table of definitions
Financials	Application
List of aged Debtors and Creditors	
Trade Debtors are also known as 'accounts receivable' and is shown on the balance sheet as 'current assets'.
Trade Creditors are also known as 'accounts payable' and is shown on the balance sheet as 'current liabilities'.

Checks:

days overdue

how is the taxpayer treating their trade creditors? This will guide considerations of a payment arrangement

are they prioritising payment to their creditors (for supply of goods, for example) in lieu of payments to the Commissioner?

have they extended the terms with other creditors?


Projected cash flow for the proposed term of the payment arrangement	
Used for providing a measure of an entity's liquidity by recording cash receipts and payments showing the net changes in cash for a given period.
Did the taxpayer include the payment proposal amounts to the ATO in their forecast?
Do payments and receivables match the debtors and creditors list provided?

Most recent statement for each financial institution account held	

Bank statements of the last three months can:

confirm if the financial position the entity claims to be in is accurate
show whether there are large sums of money being moved out of an account. This is to show a smaller 'cash at hand' in their payment proposal
indicate whether they are still receiving funds from trade debtors on a regular basis.

Detailed balance sheet or statement of financial position	
This gives you an idea of the entity's financial position. It displays what the entity owns and owes.
You should be able to identify if tax obligations (Super/PAYGW/GST) have been accounted for and included in their costs.

Details of any overdraft or loan facilities, including balances owing and monthly repayments	

Provides information on whether the taxpayer can

draw down to finance Payment in Full (PIF) or

manage larger instalments to reduce the payment plan timeframe.

Repayment amounts need to also be considered in the cashflow to accurately determine ability to

pay the ATO debt, and

meet their ongoing obligations.

It may also identify if there are inter- or intra-company loans. This

may also be found on bank transactions

may assist with considerations that ultimate holding company (UHC) or Group Head has capacity to pay the debts

is also relevant if the taxpayer is part of a Consolidated Group.


Details of current contracts / future works	
May provide information on the taxpayers current and future income streams.
Are these contracts finalised and/or guaranteed?
Are they conditional contracts (i.e. payment only when a service or defect target has been met also known as a retention fund usually is 10%)?
Can you match this amount on the cashflow provided (possibly through payment time frames or information from the contract deliverable dates?
Have they structured entities where one company holds the employees who are 'charged out' to other companies holding the contracts and assets?
Positive cash flow

It is important for businesses to have positive cash flow. Without positive cashflow, it is difficult for the taxpayer to:

run their business, and
be able to pay their bills on time when they have insufficient funds available at their disposal.

Therefore, the taxpayer will need to assess, revaluate and look at changing their business structures before it is too late. For example, some options available for the taxpayer is for the directors to:

inject cash/wealth into the business, e.g. director loans

look at

refinancing

obtaining a business loan

applying for or increasing an existing overdraft facility (if it is currently maxed out or overdrawn)

look at freeing up some capital by selling off some assets. The aim is to free up working capital to allow the business to be sustainable to

be able to continue to trade, and

have capacity to pay its bills on time or when called upon.

Negative cash flow

Negative cash flow is when a business spends more cash than it generates in a particular period. This implies the total cash inflow is less than total outflow from the following activities:

operating activities
investing activities
financing activities.

It is a prevalent situation for businesses in their growth phase as they need to spend money to:

fuel growth
acquire customers, or
set up distribution channels.

In such situation, the deficit should be supported by equity infusion, debt funding, or both.

Insolvent

A business is insolvent when it:

has no liquid or tangible assets that it can sell, borrow or refinance against, and
is not in a position to be able to pay when it is being called upon to pay.

If insolvent, the business should seek legal advice from an insolvency practitioner or specialist regarding managing debt.

 If you are unsure, seek advice from your coach.

The financials can safeguard the ATO from having to repay preference payments to the insolvency practitioner. This is because the financials show that the entity was viable at the time the P/A was negotiated.

Related resources
PS LA 2011/20

 - Payment and credit allocation
PS LA 2011/14

 - General Debt Collection Powers and Principals.
Remissions
Information

The remission procedure enables frontline staff to consider requests from sophisticated taxpayers where the:

request meets low value activity guidelines criteria, or
value of the request is $10,000 or less for each GIC and FTL penalty.

To consider remission of interest or penalties:

the taxpayer needs to have taken reasonable steps to try and mitigate the effects of the circumstances
we may also take into consideration special circumstances. For example, where a taxpayer
has a good payment history, and
is late on a one-off basis or on an isolated occasion.

Follow Telephony request - GIC, FTL, SIC remission or cancellation

 or Correspondence request - GIC, FTL, SIC remission or cancellation.

 Use the below information as a guide.

Go to the relevant sections:

Low value guidelines
GIC remission
FTL on Time Penalty remission
SIC remission
Related resources.
Low value guidelines

Remission requests for sophisticated taxpayers may be granted if the taxpayers request meets the low-risk and good compliance history guidelines. Refer to low value activity guidelines.


GIC remission

GIC may be remitted on Super Guarantee Employer Reporting accounts (SGER) in exceptional circumstances.

If an employer does not pay their employee's super on time and to the right superfund, the employer must:

pay the superannuation guarantee charge (SGC)
lodge an SGC statement with the ATO.

The liability is then raised and is reported in the SGER account. It is important to note that:

the SGC is payable by employers who failed to provide the prescribed minimum level of superannuation support by the due date

the amount is then collected on behalf of the employees by the ATO. This is to compensate the employees for their lost earnings to safeguard the employees retirement.

Considerations (for all GIC remission requests):

What has caused the taxpayer inability to be able to pay on time?

Were the circumstances unexpected and beyond taxpayer control? (e.g. natural disaster, unforeseen collapse of a major debtor)?

Was the delay in payment caused by the taxpayer actions or from failure to act?

Did the taxpayer act within a reasonable timeframe to reduce the severity and impact of the circumstances? For example, by

notifying the ATO

keeping the ATO informed

calling to negotiate a sustainable P/A, or

making voluntary payments.

Does the taxpayer have a good lodgment and payment history?

Was the late payment a one-off event (e.g. an isolated incident)?

Does the taxpayer have a history of making late payments including sending in requests for GIC remission?

Was the delay in payment caused by the taxpayer?

Would an ordinary member of the community who pay their taxes on time see the circumstances as fair and reasonable to grant the GIC remission?

When making your decision, consider the size and resources of the taxpayer have. They are likely to have in-house accountants, tax staff and external professional advisors at their disposal.

Is the taxpayer part of a larger economic group?

Depending on the amount and circumstances of the remission request, further profiling may be necessary to understand the economic group.

The groups resource may need to be considered when making the decision. It is important to check the group for additional unactioned GIC remission requests to action under Whole of Group.

In some cases, a call to the authorised contact may be required to

request additional information, or

seek further clarification to on the taxpayer's inability to pay. For example, to establish timelines of events.

Failure to Lodge (FTL) on Time Penalty remission

You should generally only remit the FTL penalty:

after the document is lodged, and
when an FTL penalty has been applied to the taxpayer account.

Considerations:

What has caused the taxpayer inability to be able to lodge on time?
Were the circumstances unexpected and beyond the taxpayer control? For example, they were unable to access to financial information due to
natural disaster
court case
collapse of a major debtor
them waiting on a private ruling.
Was the delay in lodgment caused by the taxpayer own actions from failure to act?
Did the taxpayer act in a reasonable timeframe to try and reduce the severity and impact of the circumstances? For example, by
notifying the ATO
keeping the ATO informed, or
calling to request a deferral or suspension.
Does the taxpayer have a good lodgment and payment history?
Was the late lodgment a one-off event? For example, an isolated incident.
Does the taxpayer have a history of
making late lodgments including requests for deferrals/suspensions, or
applying for FTL penalty remission requests?
Would an ordinary member of the community who lodges and pays their taxes on time see the circumstances as fair and reasonable to grant the FTL penalty remission?
When making your decision, consider the size and resources of the taxpayer. They are likely to have in-house accountants, tax staff and external professional advisors at their disposal.
Is the taxpayer part of a larger economic group?
Depending on the amount and circumstances of the FTL penalty remission request, further profiling may be necessary to get a better understanding of the economic group.
The groups resource may need to be considered when making the decision. It is important to check the group for additional unactioned FTL penalty remission requests to action under Whole of Group.
In some cases, a call to the authorised contact may be required to
request additional information, or
to seek further clarification.
SIC remission

SIC is a compound interest imposed on income tax shortfalls from 2004-2005 financial years onwards. An income tax shortfall arises when a debit amendment increases the taxpayer's income tax liability. SIC is payable on the additional amount of income tax, i.e. the tax shortfall (TSF) amount. The shortfall period is the period from the:

payment due date of the original assessment, or
the notional due date to the day before the Commissioner gives the taxpayer a notice of amended assessment (NOAA).

The SIC will need to be manually adjusted if:

a taxpayer lodges subsequent amendment, and
this subsequent amendment adjusts the same particulars as an amendment that has had SIC applied.

Considerations:

SIC replaces GIC during the shortfall period and is calculated at a lower rate than GIC.
What has caused the taxpayer inability to be able to lodge the correct information when the ITA return was due?
Were the circumstances unexpected and beyond taxpayer control? For example,
natural disaster
unforeseen collapse of a major debtor
the taxpayer was waiting on a private ruling.
Was the delay in lodgment caused by the taxpayer actions or from failure to act where the information was amended due to an ATO audit?
Did the taxpayer act within a reasonable timeframe to reduce the severity and impact of the circumstances? For example, by
notifying the ATO
keeping the ATO informed
advising
incorrect information has been lodged on the ITA return, and
an amendment will need to be lodged and sent in
calling in to negotiate a sustainable P/A
making voluntary payments.
The taxpayer is entitled to a remission of SIC where an early payment has been made.
SIC should be reduced by the amount of any interest on early payment (IEP) that the taxpayer is entitled to.
Does the taxpayer have a good lodgment and payment history?
Was the late lodgment resulting in an amendment a one-off event? For example an isolated incident.
Does the taxpayer have a history of
lodging the incorrect information
amending the ITA return, and then
sending in a request for SIC remission?
Was the delay in lodging the ITA return caused by the taxpayer?
Would an ordinary member of the community who pay their taxes on time see the circumstances as fair and reasonable to grant the SIC remission?
When making your decision, consider the size and resources of the taxpayer have. They are likely to have in-house accountants, tax staff and external professional advisors at their disposal.
Is the taxpayer part of a larger economic group?
Depending on the amount and circumstances of the remission request, further profiling may be necessary to understand the economic group.
The groups resource may need to be considered when making the decision. It is important to check the group for additional unactioned SIC remission requests to action under Whole of Group.
In some cases, a call to the authorised contact may be required to seek further information/clarification. This is to find out the taxpayer's inability to lodge the correct information when the original tax return was lodged.
Related resources

Good decision making model


Compliance model


ATO Charter


PS LA 2011/12

 - Remission of General Interest Charge

PS LA 2011/19

 - Administration of the penalty for failure to lodge

FTL penalty guideline


PS LA 2006/8

 - Remission of shortfall interest charge and general interest charge for shortfall periods

Frontline Operations Practice Note 2003/015

 - General interest charge (GIC) - Interest rate for calculating the GIC

Frontline Operations Practice Note 2005/011

 - General interest charge - Remission of general interest charge (GIC) which has been incurred but not imposed or notified within a reasonable time

Frontline Operations Practice Note 2006/001

 - ATO assistance for taxpayers affected by disasters.

Deferrals

Refer to the Know your Sophisticated Taxpayer Guide,

 Deferral and Suspension guide for Sophisticated Taxpayers

 and Deferral and suspensions

 to:

determine the risk associated with granting or refusing the deferral request
look at how the outcome would affect both the ATO and the taxpayer. This would include, but is not limited to

the risk of external reviews, complaints, and risk to the ATO reputation, and
for the taxpayer, the risk of

an unfair financial advantage
disengagement from these taxpayers
insolvency.

While considering the above information, you will need to:

ensure these requests are actioned separately for each taxpayer, as they are legally separate entities
still understand and evaluate any potential group level of the SC approach.

When deciding whether it is fair and reasonable to grant a deferral, consider:

the reason why the entity or their representative is unable to lodge on time

the value of the information provided in the document

the size and structure of the entity. Large corporate entities are more likely to have the ability and available resources to overcome circumstances that might affect their ability to not lodge by the due date

the risk to revenue

the entity's compliance history as a whole, that is

lodgment of taxation returns, activity statements and other documents

payments on time

previous dealings with the ATO

the length of time needed to lodge the document. A deferral will usually be granted where an entity

has a good compliance history, and

requests a short period of additional time to lodge

any other relevant information that includes the individual circumstances.

We generally consider it to be fair and reasonable to grant a deferral where the inability to lodge by the due date is reasonably attributed to exceptional or unforeseen circumstances. These include:

natural disasters or other disasters or events that may have, or have had, a significant impact on individuals, regions, or particular industries
impeded access to records (for example, records seized during a police search or retained as evidence in a court matter)
the serious illness or death of a family member, tax professional or critical staff member
considerable lack of knowledge and understanding of taxation obligations
system issues, either with ATO online services or the entity's business system.

Complete the following before you contact the taxpayer to advise of the outcome or request additional information:

assess the request following relevant
the ATO guidelines
EKM procedures
practice statements (PSLA), and
profile the taxpayer (including associated group/entities)
consider the risk.

If the taxpayer is a Large Withholder and/or Significant Excise Payer, deferral for payments of PAYGW, GST or Excise is not available. This is unless the company can demonstrate:


they do not have access to alternate sources of funding, and


that meeting their payment obligations would be a contributing factor in their becoming insolvent in the immediate future.

Registered agent requests

Registered agents can submit requests for deferral of:

lodgment, or lodgment and payment, via Online services for agents (OSfA)

using the lodgment deferral

 function, or

by completing a deferral application


payment only by completing Payment-only deferral requests for registered agents

 via OSfA.

To action requests received via OSfA for SGEs and Large withholders refer to Lodgment program deferrals - for sophisticated taxpayers.


Decision

Determine if the deferral request meets the criteria.

Narrate your decision:

include what you are recommending and/or approving
ensure the reasons for your decision are appropriately detailed. Include the following
lodgment and payment history of the entity and the economic group
specific impacts that have been provided
evidence.
Refer to Deferrals and suspensions

 to finalise requests.

Information alert:
Payment deferrals are generally a short-term measure to provide immediate assistance in extenuating circumstances.

If payment is unlikely to be made in full by the deferred due date:

a sustainable P/A may be more appropriate, or
consider a suspension of action to stop further recovery action from continuing or being considered.

Related resources
Deferral Suspension guideline

Large Business support

Lodgment and payment due dates

PS LA 2011/15

 - Lodgment obligations, due dates, and deferrals
PS LA 2011/14

 - General debt collection powers and principles
Frontline Operations Practice Notes.


Authorisation/delegation and approval

Where the request is outside your authorisation/delegation,

 you will need to escalate for approval.

Information alert:
There is no requirement to create a new/separate submission activity.

Activities with the Interaction field of Outbound phone and Outbound correspondence will not deliver via iWD, therefore must not be used to seek approval.


Follow the links in the work type procedure to escalate for approval.

 
-------
-------
Calculate payout figures in ICP | Enterprise Knowledge Management
https://ekm/fo/nn/049/calculate-payout-figures-in-icp

 

Calculate payout figures in ICP

Work types
Support materials
ATOlaw
Emergency
PORO
Support materials
Support materials
Calculate payout figures in ICP

How to calculate payout figures in ICP.

Last published 21 October 2025

Favourite Notes Collapse all 
Background

This page shows how to calculate payout figures in ICP.

Recent updates
11/03/2021	Added content from ICP-calculate payout figure page to remove duplicate content.	

SD-31442

Procedure Steps
Verbal request
Step	Action


1

	

Go to ICP.




2

	

Select the account from the Taxpayer Account Summary.




3

	

Select Forecast Penalty and Interest from the Account menu.




4

	

Change the date in the Forecast date field to the date full payment is expected to be received.




5

	

Select the type of forecast from the Category ID menu.




6

	

Select Next. 




7

	

Provide the taxpayer's payout figure.

The forecasted payout figure is viewable from Due and Payable Balance as of. 




8

	

Use the Notes fly-out tab and select the Payout figure note template. Edit/copy/paste as required.

Written request via statement of account

If the payout figure is outside of 21 days, system limitations will not allow an SOA to be generated.

Step	Action


1

	

Go to ICP.




2

	

Select Statement of account (SOA) from Client account summary.




3

	

Establish what date the payment is to be received by the ATO. This will be the date the payout figure is calculated to.




4

	

Select:

update SOA parameters and enter the payout date at payable if paid on

display.




5

	

Select Forecast due and payable balance and then refer to Total payable amount.




6

	

If the payout figure is within 21 days, provide the payout figure and generate SOA.


Related Resources

Forecast - penalty and interest


 
-------


-------
Impose - GIC overview for ICP accounts | Enterprise Knowledge Management
https://ekm/fo/fs/da/client-requests/gic-remission/impose-gic-overview-for-icp-accounts

 

Impose - GIC overview for ICP accounts

Taxpayer Requests
Copies of tax documents
GIC Remission
Release
GIC Remission
GIC Remission
Work types
Taxpayer Requests
GIC Remission
Impose - GIC overview for ICP accounts
Impose - GIC overview for ICP accounts

An overview of general interest charge (GIC) functions for accounts in ICP.

Last published 16 September 2025

Favourite Notes Collapse all 
Background

General Interest Charge (GIC) is a uniform interest charge that is imposed on outstanding taxation debts. The charge is calculated daily on a compounding basis. Liability to the charge only exists if it is specified in a legislative provision.

For details of interest rates used to calculate GIC since 1 July 2000, refer to Operations practice note 2003/015

 - General interest charge (GIC) - Interest rate for calculating the GIC.

The main GIC functions in ICP are:

calculate GIC

apply GIC to account

forecast GIC

remit GIC, and

view GIC calculation details.

Recent updates
05/06/2025	

Update to 'GIC - Deductibility and assessability'.

	SD-94044

In Detail
Accounts excluded from GIC

Accounts for the following taxpayer types are excluded from GIC:

Diplomatic/Consulate/High Commission

Government entity

Crown entity, and

Government statutory authority.

GIC does not apply to the following:

Higher Education Loan Programme (HELP), Student Start-up Loan (SSL), ABSTUDY Student Start-up Loan (ABSTUDY SSL), Australian Apprenticeship Support Loan (AASL) and Student Financial Supplement Scheme (SFSS) accounts (these are subject to an indexation regime)

excise collections

recovery costs

civil penalties

amounts payable under director penalty notices, or

debts subject to certain bankruptcy or insolvency administration types.

GIC role and periods

There are 3 GIC roles. These are: 

account based GIC applied to a GIC role (income tax, Fringe Benefits Tax (FBT), and Unclaimed Superannuation Money (USM))

period based GIC not applied to a GIC role ( Co-Contributions PVA Remittance and Recovery Roles, LISC PVA Remittance and Recovery Roles, and some FHSA roles)

period based GIC applied to SG Shortfall GIC, SG Part 7 Penalty GIC and SG TAA Penalty GIC roles.

Generally, GIC transactions are posted to the general interest charge role attached to a taxpayer account. Periods for the GIC role are normally for 12 months ending 30 June, or the end of the income tax lodgment cycle for substituted accounting period (SAP) taxpayers. However, all GIC postings converted from legacy system accounts will be assigned to the general interest charge role in a single period, spanning 01 July 2000 to the date of conversion.

Information alert:
Exceptions to the above will be included in this document when the details have been confirmed.
Calculating and applying GIC

Some taxpayer accounts calculate GIC at the role level where only some roles in the account have transactions that could attract GIC. Other taxpayer accounts can calculate GIC at account level where all roles in the account have transactions that attract GIC.

Automated GIC

The automated system GIC calculation process is triggered and GIC updated on an account if required, when:

a periodic (monthly) GIC update request is processed

a user initiated GIC update is processed, or

the Impose SIC service performs a SIC reversal/reinstatement transaction.

A new financial transaction posted to an account will also trigger the system GIC calculation process, but this will only result in an update of GIC on the account if:

a refund or offsetting is required

the account goes into credit, or

the transaction is for a re-raise of an amount previously subject to non-pursuit.

Transferring a processed form to suspense will trigger the automated GIC calculation process.

Automated GIC order of processing

GIC is calculated in the following order.

1	

GIC amendment for transitional period. (This relates to a transaction that affects GIC in the period containing GIC converted from the legacy system. The method for calculating amended GIC for this period is different to normal GIC calculations).


2	

GIC amendment for periods after the transitional period (from the oldest to the most recent period).


3	

Threshold remission rules applied (see the Threshold remissions section for more details).


4	

Concessional GIC amendments.


5	

Original GIC, from last GIC update to current date minus one day.


6	

Threshold remission rules applied.


7	

Concessional GIC remission.

RBA or account level GIC

For all Running Balance Accounts (RBAs) and most non-RBAs, GIC is calculated on the net balance of all roles attached to an account. GIC transactions are posted to the GIC role and period that the transaction affects. For example, an original GIC transaction is always posted to the current period. An amendment to GIC for a previous period is posted to that period with an effective date of the end date of the period.

Period balance GIC

Superannuation Guarantee (SG) Employer Accounts can accrue three types of GIC, they are to be calculated independently.

SG part 7 GIC must be calculated on the period balance of the:

part 7 component on the SG Part 7 role

part 7 GIC component on the SG Part 7 GIC Role

posted on the SG Part 7 GIC role, in a corresponding period aligned to the base role.

SG shortfall GIC must be calculated on the period balance of the:

shortfall on the SG Shortfall role

shortfall GIC component on the SG Shortfall GIC role

posted on the SG Shortfall GIC role, in a corresponding period aligned to the base role.

SG TAA Penalty GIC must be calculated on the period balance of the:

SG TAA Penalty component on the SG TAA Penalty role

SG TAA Penalty GIC component on the SG TAA Penalty GIC role

posted on the SG TAA Penalty GIC role, in a corresponding period aligned to the base role.

Where a GIC transaction is to be posted to the SG Shortfall GIC, SG Part 7 GIC role or the SG TAA Penalty GIC role, and that role does not yet exist, create the relevant role via the Create Account/Role service (using the same taxpayer account and period as the transaction which triggered the Impose Debit Interest service).

The main difference between SG GIC and standard running balance GIC is that it must be calculated on the period balance of the roles which attract SG GIC and then recorded against a distinct SG GIC role in a corresponding period aligned to the SG role period.

Manual GIC

Manual GIC transactions can be applied to an ICP account through the add sundry transaction and add manual penalty, cost or fine processes.

However, the presence of one or more of these transaction types can prevent calculation of GIC by the automated GIC process.

Types of manual GIC transactions are tabled below.

Process to apply transaction:

Add sundry transaction
Add manual penalty

Add sundry transaction

Transaction type
	This transaction is used..

Manual GIC	

to apply manual GIC for a period of time that has not previously had GIC




Manual GIC remission

	

to remit manual GIC postings.




Manual GIC adjustment

	

where GIC has been previously applied for a period of time, but requires a manual adjustment of the amount applied.




Manual GIC remission adjustment

	

to adjust a previously applied GIC remission (e.g. while correcting GIC remitted in error).

Add manual penalty

Transaction type...
	This transaction is used...

Top up GIC	

to apply top-up GIC to a taxpayer's record where judgment has been obtained.


Penalty for late payment	

to apply penalty for late payment to a taxpayer's record (this penalty only applies up to 1 July 1999).


Late payment interest	

to apply late payment interest to a taxpayer's record (this penalty only applies up to 1 July 1999).

Information alert:
Staff access to add/remit/cancel manual GIC will be restricted.

Generally, before a manual GIC transaction is applied to an account, the No Auto GIC accounting treatment should be added to that account to stop system calculated GIC also being applied. The exceptions to this are as follows:

The manual GIC transaction is added to the period for GIC converted from the legacy account. A manual GIC transaction in this period will not affect automatic GIC processing.

There is a different type of accounting treatment active for the account that stops automatic GIC. These include most Insolvency and the Judgment accounting treatments.

If the automated GIC process encounters a manual GIC transaction in a review period in the past (prior to the last GIC update date), and a No Auto GIC accounting treatment is not active, processing will stop. A MAN GIC AUTO PERIOD review item is generated and attached to a Siebel activity for action. Refer to the Review items section of more details.

Information alert:
A user can manually initiate an update of GIC for an account, but this triggers the automated GIC process and does not result in manual GIC transactions.
GIC remissions
Threshold remissions

The automated GIC process applies three types of automatic GIC threshold remissions in the following order:

Daily threshold remission - where the total GIC amount, divided by the number of days for the GIC calculation period, is less than the daily threshold amount (currently set at $3.34), the amount is remitted in full, then
Minimum imposition remission - where the total GIC amount is less than the minimum threshold amount (currently $100.00), the amount is remitted in full, then
Small debit balance remission - where the account balance before GIC calculation is zero or a credit, and the GIC imposed results in an account balance which is less than the small debit balance threshold amount (currently $500.00), a remission is applied to bring the account balance back to zero.
Information alert:
There are no GIC remission thresholds for SG Employer accounts as the GIC calculated is attributable to employees and not retained by the ATO.
Concessional GIC accounting treatment remission

An account may be subject to an accounting treatment that results in automatic remissions of GIC as GIC is updated on the account. The automatic remission applies to debts in all roles for the account, between the start and end dates of the treatment, at the rate specified for the particular treatment type.

Generally, where the start date of the accounting treatment is earlier than the date the treatment is applied to the account, ICP will automatically apply a retrospective remission for GIC. However, this will not occur for GIC converted to ICP from the legacy system, and manual remission action is required.

If there are any subsequent amendments that affect GIC in the converted GIC period, the automated GIC process will calculate and apply an adjustment for the GIC concession for the specific amended amount.

If the accounting treatment is cancelled, the related auto GIC remission transactions are also cancelled. Any manual GIC remission transaction would need to be manually cancelled.

User actioned remissions

Legislation requires an entity to pay GIC to the Commissioner on amounts of taxation related liabilities that remain unpaid after their respective due dates. Section 8AAG of the Taxation Administration Act 1953 allows the Commissioner to remit all or part of any GIC incurred.

Requests for remission may be received over the telephone or in writing. The onus is on the taxpayer to provide sufficient information for their remission request to be considered in accordance with the relevant policy. However, you are to ensure that you work within a framework that gives taxpayers every opportunity to meet their taxation obligations. At the same time encouraging them to work with the Tax Office where they have problems so that they can be resolved effectively.

Remission of GIC without a taxpayer request may also be undertaken where an error has been made, or it is otherwise appropriate to do so.

Remission action for automatically calculated GIC can be taken at the:

individual GIC transaction level, or

account level (for multiple transactions at a time) using the account level general interest charge remission form, or

period level for SG Employer accounts.

To remit manual GIC, you will be required to add a new sundry transaction with an input reason of Manual GIC Remission.

Information alert:
Authorisations apply to GIC remission amounts. The authorisation level relates to the value of all transaction level remissions for the account, and not to remission on individual transactions.

A percentage remission option does not calculate and deduct a percentage of the total GIC amount, it is calculated as a percentage reduction of the interest rate. As GIC is a compounding interest, the calculation is done in steps and the principal reduces at each step, so the amount calculated also reduces.

Account level remission

Account level remission allows remission of the auto imposed GIC on the account. You can remit either a dollar amount or a percentage.

Where manual GIC transactions exist on an account within the remission period, you will need to manually remit these transactions.

Period level remission

Period level remission allows remission of shortfall GIC, SG Part 7 GIC or SG TAA Penalty GIC which is automatically imposed on an employers or super fund's account. It may be remitted by manually lodging a GIC Period Level Remission form.

When lodging the GIC Period Level Remission form you are to specify remission of GIC at the Period level (Shortfall GIC, SG Part 7 GIC or SG TAA Penalty GIC).

Remissions may occur in an individual period or over multiple periods.

Transaction level remission

Transaction level remission is where remission action is taken on an individual GIC transaction.

It is necessary to select the relevant GIC transaction on the account, and use the Remit or cancel automated penalty or interest for automated GIC, or add sundry transaction for manual GIC.

The following rules apply to remission of GIC:

only original GIC and debit GIC amended transactions can be subject to remission

the remaining amount of the GIC transaction may be remitted in full or in part, using a dollar amount or a percentage

the remission amount cannot exceed the remaining amount of the transaction, and

the remission amount cannot exceed the total GIC available for remission for the related period.

Information alert:
Converted GIC transactions combine the total amount of converted GIC available for remission. Therefore selecting a single converted GIC transaction will display the remaining GIC as the total converted GIC & allow the entire amount to be remitted against one transaction.

There are no system constrains on the order in which GIC transactions can be selected for remission. However, it is recommended that remission action be taken in the following sequence:

commence remission action on the most recent transaction in the relevant time frame

progressively work backwards selecting the next oldest transaction until the remission action is completed or there are no further transactions for the period

if necessary, take remission action on debit GIC amended transactions, and

if necessary, commence remission action on transactions in the next oldest period.

Financial transaction types for automated GIC

The following table lists automated GIC financial transactions types that can be posted to an ICP account.

Transaction description on ICP account	Transaction description on statement of account
General interest charge	

General interest charge (GIC) calculated from <date GIC calculated from> to <date GIC calculated to>


General interest charge amend	

Amended general interest charge (GIC) calculated from <date GIC calculated from> to <date GIC calculated to>


General interest charge cancel	

Cancellation of general interest charge


General interest charge rem	

Remission of general interest charge (GIC)


General int charge rem concess	

Remission of general interest charge (GIC) - concessional


General int charge rem adjust	

General interest charge (GIC) remission adjustment due to GIC amendment


Concess gen int charge rem adj	

Concessional general interest charge (GIC) remission adjustment due to GIC amendment


General int charge rem cancel	

Cancellation of remission of general interest charge (GIC)


Gen int charge rem concess canc	

Cancellation of remission of general interest charge (GIC) - concessional

Notional GIC

Where an account is subject to a No Auto GIC accounting treatment, Debit processing or All suppression type, GIC is calculated but is recorded as Notional GIC, using non financial transactions. This is to indicate the amount of GIC that would be physically applied to the account if the accounting treatment or suppression were not active. Notional GIC is not included in the account balance and is not a collectable debt.

Notional GIC is posted to the General Interest Change role as a $0 amount, and it is necessary to view the transaction to obtain details of the notional GIC amount. This amount indicates GIC calculated from the last successful update of GIC for the account.

Tabled below is a list of notional GIC non-financial transaction types.

Transaction description on ICP account	Transaction description on statement of account
Ntnl general interest charge	

Notional general interest charge


Ntnl gen int chg amend	

Notional general interest charge amend


Ntnl gen int chg canc	

Notional general interest charge cancel


Ntnl gen int chg rem	

Notional general interest charge remission


Ntnl gen int chg rem conc	

Notional general interest charge concessional remission


Ntnl gen int chg rem adj	

Notional general interest charge remission adjustment


Ntnl gen int chg rem adj canc financial	

Notional general interest charge remission adjustment cancel


Ntnl conc GIC rem adj	

Notional concessional GIC remission adjustment


Ntnl conc GIC rem adj canc	

Notional concessional GIC remission adjustment cancel


Ntnl gen int chg rem canc	

Notional general interest charge remission cancel


Notional general interest charge remission cancel	Notional general interest charge concessional remission cancel
Forecast GIC

A forecast of GIC can be initiated by using the Forecast penalty and interest function. It is used to determine an account balance as at a specific date, including the amount of automated penalties and/or interest that have been incurred but not applied to an account. The forecast function does not result in an actual update of penalties and/or GIC for the account.

The date specified for the forecast process can be in the past, present or future. Examples are:

a past date where the account balance as at the date of a taxpayers insolvency is required

the current date when advising a taxpayer of the amount currently outstanding on their account, or

a future date if advising a taxpayer of a future payout figure.

There are three possible outcomes from using the forecast function for GIC:

actual GIC is calculated and displayed in the Forecast summary table as GIC (the forecast amount will include all threshold and concessional GIC remissions)

notional GIC is calculated and displayed in the Forecast summary table as Notional GIC (this will occur if the account is subject to a No Auto GIC accounting treatment, Debit processing or All suppression type)

GIC could not be calculated due to a systems issue, and a GIC Forecast Fail message is displayed.

View GIC calculation details

The view GIC calculation details screen is available for GIC transactions applied by the ICP automated GIC process. Access to the calculation details is at the GIC transaction level, through the View calculation details link.

The following fields are displayed for an automated GIC transaction for each calculation interval:

Start date

End date

Amount to calculate on

Number of days

Annual GIC rate %, and

Interest calculated for interval.

In addition to the above, the total interest calculated for the period is displayed.

Where the transaction is for an automatic GIC remission for a concessional GIC treatment, details of the remission calculation is also displayed.

Where the transaction is for amended GIC, the GIC already applied to the period and the amount of amended GIC is also displayed.

Impact of accounting treatments

A number of accounting treatment types affect the way GIC is calculated and applied to an account. There are four categories of impact as follows:

Stop any automated GIC being applied to an account from the date the accounting treatment is added. This only relates to the No Auto GIC accounting treatment type. The start and end dates of the treatment are not used to determine GIC calculations, as no further GIC is applied to the account while the treatment has a status of Active. Changing the status of the treatment to Cancelled will result in GIC being calculated and applied to the account with the next GIC update, from the date of the last GIC review for the account.

Stop automated GIC being applied to the account from the start date of the accounting treatment onward. GIC is calculated and applied to the account up to the start date of the treatment. Generally, where the start date is earlier than the date the treatment is applied to the account, ICP will automatically apply a retrospective adjustment if required to the GIC with the next GIC update. This relates to account treatment types of

Judgment

Insolvency treatments that are applied to pre insolvency accounts.

Apply automatic remission of GIC at a specified rate or to a specified rate, for GIC accrued between the start date and the end date of the accounting treatment. Generally, where the start date is earlier than the date the treatment is applied to the account, ICP will automatically apply a retrospective remission for GIC with the next GIC update. Cancelling the accounting treatment will result in any automatic remissions applied to the account also being cancelled. There are a number of accounting treatment categories and types that result in automatic remission of GIC, and these include treatment types under the categories of

Concessional GIC

Natural disaster

Dispute

Other.

Stop automatic adjustments to GIC converted from legacy systems. This includes the accounting treatment category of No-auto transitional GIC.
Impact of suppressions

The Debit processing and All suppression types stop automated GIC being applied to an account. When the Suppression release date is reached or the suppression status is set to Inactive, GIC will be applied to the account with the next GIC update. The calculation of GIC will include the period covered by the suppression.

Review items

The automatic GIC process can generate four types of review items, to trigger manual investigation and action for an account.

Review item	Generates when...
A MAN GIC UPDATE (manual GIC update)	

calculation of GIC for the account is initiated, and

a No Auto GIC accounting treatment or Debit processing suppression is active for the account.

The purpose of this review item is to indicate that an automated GIC update would have occurred, except for the presence of the No Auto GIC accounting treatment or suppression. A manual update of GIC may be required.


A MAN GIC AUTO PERIOD (manual GIC in automatic period)	

an update of automated GIC for the account is initiated

one or more manual GIC transactions exist in a period subject to the GIC review (excludes the period for GIC transactions converted from a legacy account)

the account is not subject to an active No Auto GIC accounting treatment, and

the sum of the manual GIC transactions is not equal to zero (the manual transactions have not been cancelled).

This review item indicates that an automated GIC update could not be completed because a manual GIC transaction is present in a period subject to GIC calculation. Actions required will depend on whether the account should be subject to automated or manual GIC.


A MAN TRANSITIONAL GIC UPDATE (manual transitional GIC update required)	

an update of automated GIC for the account is initiated

the update requires a recalculation of converted GIC amounts

a No-auto Transitional GIC accounting treatment is present, and

the end date of the accounting treatment is after the transitional GIC period start date.


A MAN CR TRANSITIONAL GIC UPDATE (manual credit transitional GIC review required)	

an update of general interest charge (GIC) is initiated,

since the last GIC update a transaction has been posted with an effective date prior to the legacy GIC last review date (LRD), that requires a credit amendment to GIC, and

the sum of legacy GIC postings in the transitional GIC calculation period is a nil or credit amount, and there is at least one GIC debit transaction in the transitional GIC calculation period.

The review item status of all review items for a period must be changed to 'Approved' for processing to continue.

GIC - Deductibility and assessability

Before 1 July 2025, GIC can be claimed as a tax deduction by the taxpayer as expenditure incurred in the year it is paid for taxpayers on the simplified tax system. For all other taxpayers, the deduction is allowable for the year the GIC was incurred irrespective of whether the GIC is paid within the relevant financial year.

From 1 July 2025, interest charged by the ATO for late payments or underpayments will no longer be tax deductible.
Interest charged by the ATO that was incurred before 1 July 2025 can still be claimed as a deduction.

Where GIC is remitted, the taxpayer is taken to have received the remitted amount as recovery of that expenditure. The amount of GIC remitted is assessable income in the financial year in which GIC was remitted.

Definitions

Following is a list of definitions of GIC related acronyms and terms.

Acronym/term	Definition
Amended GIC	

The process of updating GIC through account periods that have already been reviewed. An amendment is triggered as a consequence of a retrospective change to the financial position of an account.


Component GIC	

GIC calculation for individual tax liabilities on an account. Required for non RBA debts when issuing 459E demand or Statement of Claim. For R3.1 calculations are external to host systems through an RMS worksheet or COMPACT reconciliation.


Concessional GIC	

The application of a reduced rate of GIC, generally for circumstances of the taxpayer that warrant a reduction, such as natural disaster. Concessional GIC is applied by posting a GIC remission transaction to give effect of the reduction when GIC is applied to the account.


Converted GIC	

GIC transactions added to an ICP account derived from a legacy account. This is done at the time of conversion of the account to ICP.


Crown entity	

Section 2B of the Taxation Administration Act 1953 came into effect on 25 February 2015 and provides the Crown is not liable for certain pecuniary penalties or to be prosecuted for certain offences. This means that the Crown and entities that share the immunities of the Crown (Crown entities) are not liable to pay general interest charge, shortfall interest charge or a penalty if liability for that penalty or interest charge would be imposed by the TAA. (Crown entities may be subject to penalty or interest charges imposed by another Act).


Forecast/estimated GIC	

An amount of GIC that is calculated for a period of time. The date specified for the forecast/estimate can be in the past, present or future. Forecast/Estimated GIC is not incurred, thus it is not imposed on the account.


GIC	

General interest charge - a uniform interest amount charged to taxpayer accounts where a debt remains unpaid after the due date. GIC is a compounding interest regime, calculated on a daily basis. GIC is applicable to all tax types unless excluded by law.


GIC remission (full or partial)	

A reduction, applied in accordance with Section 8AAG of the Taxation Administration Act 1953, to the amount of a GIC liability incurred by a taxpayer.


Notional GIC	

An amount of GIC posted to an account as a non-financial transaction to indicate the amount of GIC that would have been applied had ICP been able to update GIC on the account. This GIC is not legally collectible and has no financial impact on the account.


Original GIC	

The original amount is the amount calculated for a period of time for the first time, or the first time a part of the account is reviewed for GIC purposes.


Period balance GIC (See definitions for superannuation related GIC for more information)	

General interest charge that is applicable at the period level based on the balance of a period, or of a component within a period, rather than an entire account.


Role balance GIC	

This is any GIC calculation that is performed at the role level.

The GIC is calculated on specific role/s within an account rather than on all roles within an account as in running balance account GIC.


Running balance account (RBA) GIC	

This is any GIC calculation that is performed at the account level. The calculation involves multiplying the GIC rate for the day by the RBA deficit at the end of the day.


Superannuation co-contributions Payment variation advice (PVA) remittance GIC	

Superannuation co-contributions PVA remittance GIC is general interest charge that is applicable to superannuation providers where they could not apply co-contribution amounts to a members account and did not return the payment to the Tax Office within 28 days of receiving it. It is known as PVA remittance GIC as the Tax Office knows of the liability only when a PVA remittance advice is received.


Superannuation co-contributions recovery GIC	

Superannuation co-contributions recovery GIC is general interest charge that is applicable to superannuation providers where there are outstanding amounts relating to recoveries for overpaid co-contributions.


Superannuation guarantee part 7 GIC	

Superannuation guarantee part 7 GIC is general interest charge that is applicable to the outstanding balance of an employers superannuation guarantee Part 7 liability. The main difference between this GIC and GIC for running balance accounts is that super guarantee GIC must be calculated at the period level and the result recorded in that same period so collections applied to that liability can be distinguished between what needs to be distributed to employees (or their super provider) and what is retained by the tax office.


Superannuation guarantee shortfall GIC	

Superannuation guarantee shortfall GIC is general interest charge that is applicable to the outstanding balance of an employers superannuation guarantee shortfall liability. The main difference between this GIC and GIC for running balance accounts is that super guarantee GIC must be calculated at the period level and the result recorded in that same period so collections applied to that liability can be distinguished between what needs to be distributed to employees (or their super provider) and what is retained by the tax office.


Superannuation guarantee TAA penalty GIC	

Superannuation guarantee TAA Penalty GIC is general interest charge that is applicable to the outstanding balance of an employers superannuation guarantee TAA Penalty liability. The main difference between this GIC and GIC for running balance accounts is that super guarantee GIC must be calculated at the period level and the result recorded in that same period so collections applied to that liability can be distinguished between what needs to be distributed to employees (or their super provider) and what is retained by the Australian taxation office (ATO).


Top-up GIC	

The application of GIC where an amount of Judgment interest applies to a debt. The total amount of debit interest applied, including the Judgment interest amount, is never more than the prevailing GIC rate. When Judgment interest is applied, the difference between the Judgment interest amount and the prevailing GIC amount is applied as top-up GIC.


Transitional GIC amendment	

A transitional GIC amendment amends GIC for FBT and income tax accounts for the period 01/07/2000 to the period end date for the role for converted GIC transactions.

Transitional amendments are calculated by a process that is different to that of normal GIC calculations.

Related Resources
Practice Statement Law Administration

PS LA 2011/12

 - Remission of General Interest Charge

PS LA 2011/14

 - General Debt collection powers and principles

PS LA 2006/8

 - Remission of shortfall interest charge and general interest charge for shortfall periods

Operations practice note 2003/015

 - Interest rate for calculating the GIC

Operations practice note 2005/011

 - General interest charge - Remission of GIC which has been incurred but not imposed or notified within a reasonable time

Operations practice note 2006/001

 - Deferrals of time to lodge or pay and remission of penalties and interest - Tax Office assistance for taxpayers affected by natural disasters
 
-------

-------
Account-debt paid in full | Enterprise Knowledge Management
https://ekm/fo/nn/050/account-debt-paid-in-full

 
Account-debt paid in full

This page provides the required action after the taxpayer has paid their debt in full.

Last published 21 October 2025

Favourite Notes Collapse all 
Background

This page provides the required action after the taxpayer has paid their debt in full.

Recent updates

18/11/2024

	Update to 'Accounting actions identified' and 'Judgment obtained' sections.	SD-87712
Procedure Steps
Check payment

Paying a debt in full will stop legal action from continuing. The ATO can issue a payment in full letter to confirm the debt has been satisfied.

If the taxpayer advises that the debt was paid in full, obtain:

the amount and date of payment

information on where the funds came from to make this payment.

The defaulted company director account is a parallel liability of the normal:

Integrated Client Account (ICA), or

Super Guarantee account.

Any payments or credits posted on the normal ICA or Super Guarantee are kept in financial alignment (synchronisation) with the defaulted company director. This is to reflect the payments or credits received.

Check to determine if the:

payment has been received

defaulting company director account has been updated.

Payment made - not showing on account
Step	Action


1

	

Conduct a payment search.





2

	

Determine if the payment was located. If:

yes, go to step 3
no,
record note/update activity

no further action.



3

	

Determine if the payment will clear the debt. If:

yes, continue
no, go to step 4.



4

	

Request payment in full. Determine if the taxpayer can pay in full. If:

yes, go to Negotiating Payment Options


no, go to Account and compliance history.


Accounting actions identified

This includes:

payments or credits transfer, or
pending wash ups.

Note: Wash-ups occur on a taxpayers account when their PAYGI or FBTI debit amount is raised after their income tax (IT) or fringe benefits tax (FBT) return has been processed, creating a false debt on their account (the instalment amount has not been applied against the taxpayers IT or FBT debt).

Where there:

are available credits or payments, they should be offset to debts as appropriate

is a pending wash up review item, the following will occur

Non-insolvent taxpayers: ICP will automatically identify and perform wash ups where applicable

Insolvent taxpayers:

If a wash up is applicable and the tax return relates to an insolvency year with the return sitting on two IT periods, a manual wash up is required

Check for a manual work item in Siebel, if the

manual wash up has been finalised, continue

activity has not been finalised,

make a note of this in your debt activity or Siebel debt case (if applicable)

determine if account action will clear the debt.

Step	Action


1

	

Action a credit or payment transfer.





2

	

Determine if the payment will clear the debt. If:

yes, continue
no, go to step 3.



3

	

Request payment in full. Determine if the taxpayer can pay in full. If:

yes, go to Negotiating Payment Options


no, go to Account and compliance history.


DCD or Legacy SGD reconciliation necessary

Where credits have been applied to the normal ICA and not to the DCD or Legacy SGD account (not converted to ICP), a Legacy SGD or DCD reconciliation may be necessary.

Step	Action


1

	

Consult with a coach and escalate a new activity to have the DCD or SGD reconciled and/or transitioned to ICP.




2

	

Advise the taxpayer that they will be provided with a payout figure within seven days. 




3

	

Record note/update activity.


No further action required.

Account reconciliation is not required for the:

Director Penalty account (SGE or PAYGW), and

associated Super Guarantee Employer/ICA account in ICP.

This is because the accounts are kept in automatic financial alignment (synchronisation).

Information alert:
Information

The synchronisation of the Director Penalty account and the Super Guarantee Employer/ICA account in ICP is an overnight process. It is advisable to check all linked accounts prior to commencing action.

Legal action stage

Select the appropriate legal action stage below to respond to the taxpayer's enquiry.

Claim
Step	Action


1

	

Advise the taxpayer a Payment in full letter will be issued to confirm the debt has been satisfied.




2

	

Impose GIC on the appropriate accounts.

Account	Requirement

Income tax
Integrated Client Account (ICA)
Div 293
FBT, or
SG Employer
	

Impose GIC





Legal Action Account - Judgment not obtained

	

Impose GIC.




PAYGW DP
SG DP                
	

GIC is not applicable to DPN amounts.




3

	

Issue a Paid in full letter.





4

	

Determine if the taxpayer has requested a notice of discontinuance. If:

yes, refer to Notice of Discontinuance for legal action

no,
record note/update activity

no further action required.
Judgment obtained

Complete the following actions:

advise the taxpayer a payment in full letter will be issued to confirm the debt has been satisfied
escalate to FC Firmer and Legal Recovery to have the letter issued as follows
Classification: Debt and Lodgment
Category: DEBT-SPECIFIC
Type: Debt Strategic Recovery
Priority: 1-ASAP
Description: Judgment interest calculation/payment in full letter required
Status: UnAllocated
Assigned To: FC29443.

No further action required.

Bankruptcy
Step	Action


1

	

Advise the taxpayer the bankruptcy notice can be ignored as the debt has been paid in full.




2

	

Issue a paid in full letter,

 if requested.




3

	

Record note/update activity.


No further action required.

 
-------



-------
Payment by credit or debit card | Enterprise Knowledge Management
https://ekm/fo/nn/011/payment-by-credit-or-debit-card

Skip to main content
Skip To search
ATOLaw

Emergency
PORO
My profile
EKM
Search
Menu
Home
Work types
Support materials

Payment by credit or debit card

Work types
Support materials
ATOlaw
Emergency
PORO
Support materials
Support materials
Payment by credit or debit card

What to advise the taxpayer when they want to pay via credit/debit card and how to process.

Last published 11 May 2026

Favourite Notes Collapse all 
Background

This page provides information for taxpayers on payments by credit or debit card and how to process the payment.

Do not take credit card details until after call recording is paused as instructed in this procedure.

Taxpayers using a card in their own name is the authorised method and ensures full fraud protection. Using a card in someone else’s name may involve extra verification checks with the card issuer.

If the taxpayer has made multiple unsuccessful payment attempts using their credit or debit card, for the same Payment Reference Number (PRN), advise them to try again the next day. Do not raise a Payment Enquiry or Missing Payment escalation.

Recent updates
11/05/2026	Minor update made to 'Background'.	SD-104135

Self Help
ATO website
Success alert:
Help the caller go to the page while on the phone.

This is a chance to educate the caller about self-help options, which may lead to:

the taxpayer using self-service in the future, and
a better taxpayer experience.

Taxpayers can obtain more information from the ATO website on:

How to pay

 and selecting the appropriate option. The latest credit card fee rates will be displayed when they use the online service

Create a myGov account and link it to the ATO


by calling the Government EasyPay self-help telephony service on 1300 898 089.

Information alert:
Use our self-service any time - it's easy, free and fast. Refer to Self-help services.


Procedure Steps
Establish PORO

If you need to discuss the account or process payments:

establish PORO,

 or

for GST Limited Registration Entities (LRE), go to Simplified GST ARN PORO.


Payment processing times

Note: Payments,

need to reach us on or before the due date
may take up to 4 business days to be received by us and to appear on a taxpayer's ATO account
made on a weekend, Australian national public holiday or after the processing cut off time on business days will be processed on the next business day.
Information on card payment

Advise the taxpayer:

Visa, MasterCard and American Express cards are accepted

card payment fees apply, refer to Card terms and conditions

 on the ATO website for details. The fee payable and percentage will be advised prior to confirming payment

payments amounts must be a minimum of $1 and maximum of $20,000,000

this is not a direct debit plan. They will need to pay subsequent payments manually or set up direct debit with a bank account

the ATO does not store card details. Call recording is stopped to ensure card details are not stored.

If the taxpayer requires information on claiming a deduction for a card payment fee, go to 'Credit card payment fees' in Other deductions.


Inbound correspondence contains card details
Information alert:
Under no circumstances should credit/debit card details be provided in writing. Card details can only be provided verbally or by using ATO online services.

Where a document attached to a Siebel activity contains card details, complete the taxpayer's request and then escalate

 to your coach/manager to have the card details blacked out.

If unavailable, complete a non-phone escalation

 and update the priority to 'ASAP'.

Obtain PRN

Where the taxpayer cannot provide their Payment reference number (PRN) over the phone, for:

GST at settlement, go to Locate GST at settlement payment reference number


other accounts, go to view PRN in ICP.


ICP one-off payments

Complete the steps in the following table to process a card payment in ICP.

Step	Action


1

	

Open ICP and select:

One-off payments from the Client menu

Account type and account sequence number from the drop-down the taxpayer wants to make a payment

Role from the drop-down if required.

Determine if the taxpayer has multiple accounts of the same type. For example, multiple ITA's. If:

yes, match the applicable account to the balance owing that will display on the selecting account

no, continue with procedure

Information

ATO Staff are unable to process payments to accounts with a $0.00 balance on the taxpayer’s behalf.

If ICP is unavailable, advise the taxpayer of alternative payment options available for paying the ATO.




2

	

Confirm the Amount to pay with the taxpayer.




3

	

Manually pause the recording to prevent collection of sensitive information as below:

right-click the AIM

 icon

select

Pause Monitoring, and

Stop button in the Voice Authentication (VA) dashboard in the Communication toolbar.

Advise the taxpayer call monitoring has stopped to ensure card details are not recorded.

If the call recording cannot be paused:

end the call

enter break code '9'

call the taxpayer back using your desktop phone (not the toolbar).

Notify your manager so your adherence file can be adjusted.




4

	

Go to ICP and select Payment methods from the Client menu.

Check if there are stored credit card details in ICP. If the taxpayer:

has a stored credit card on their account,

confirm the last 4 digits of the stored credit card with the taxpayer

check the Card Unusable Indicator. If it is

Y, the card cannot be used as it has expired. Select NEW CARD and go to step 5
N, the card is still usable, and the taxpayer can use it for the payment. If the card on file is correct, go to step 6

does not have a stored credit card or does not want to use a stored credit card, go to step 5.




5

	

Enter the credit card details provided by the taxpayer. Complete the following fields:

Cardholder name

Card number

Card verification code

Expiry date

Contact details (phone number or email)

Billing address.

Note: The contact details and billing address should be the details that the taxpayer has provided to their financial institution. If they are using a pre-paid debit card that is not registered, they should use the details they have provided to the ATO or contact the card issuer for advice about which details to use.

Ask the taxpayer if they would like to store the credit card details for future payments. Advise the taxpayer:

the ATO does not 'store' a taxpayer's card details

cards will show on systems in a 'masked' format (for example, 12345*****6789)

the ATO uses Worldline Australia to store card details on their behalf. Worldline Australia is the Reserve Bank of Australia's (RBA) payment gateway service provider. This ensures our systems are secure.

Select:

the radio button according to their response

Authorise.




6

	

Advise the taxpayer the:

payment amount

fee amount

transaction total.

If the taxpayer is happy to proceed, select Submit.

If the transaction was:

successful,

a confirmation page will display and includes the receipt number for both the principle and fee payments

not successful, then

confirm the credit card details with the taxpayer. If the credit card details were


correct, advise them to check their credit card account or try another card


not correct, return to step 5 and process the payment again with the correct details.




7

	

Manually resume recording as follows:

right-click the AIM button

select

Resume Monitoring, and

Start button in the VA dashboard in the Communication toolbar to enable voice authentication.




8

	

Add a note

 using the Card payment template in the Notes fly-out tab.

This is the end of the procedure.

Related Resources

Call recording


Using the Verint AIM application


 
-------
-------
Correspondence - contact required | Enterprise Knowledge Management
https://ekm/fo/nn/049/correspondence-contact-required
 
Correspondence - contact required

Provides required action when making contact for correspondence.

Last published 30 March 2026

Favourite Notes Collapse all 
Background

This page provides the procedures when an outbound call is required for correspondence requests.

Recent updates

30/03/2026

	Update to 'Contact the taxpayer.	SD-101709

Procedure Steps
Contact the taxpayer

Issue Pre-call SMS 
Opens in a new window
(if appropriate).

Contact the taxpayer or authorised contact by phone. For the requirements of:

PORO, refer to Outbound PORO
Opens in a new window
Verify call, refer to ATO app - Verify call
Opens in a new window
leaving messages, refer to Outbound protocol.
Opens in a new window

Depending on the result of the contact, go to the relevant heading below for action required.

Successful contact

Where contact is successful by phone, follow the relevant procedure to:

discuss the required information or action with the taxpayer

action the request if applicable

add a note
Opens in a new window
 and finalise the Siebel activity.

Unsuccessful contact
Situation	Action


Payment plan request where:

PORO is established, and

first instalment date is

not specified, and
the only additional information required
	
Enter the payment plan with a first instalment date as today plus 14 calendar days.
Go to Update systems for payment plan.



Payment plan request where:

PORO is established, and

payment method is

not specified, and
the only additional information required
Warning alert:
It is a legal requirement that the taxpayer must be contacted to obtain the payment method.
	

Where outbound phone contact is unsuccessful, including message left or unable to call due to outside hours of contact, action as follows.

First attempt:

add a note
Opens in a new window
 including a list of the specific information the taxpayer must provide
update the original Siebel activity as follows,
Call Back Attempts: 1
Review Date: 
call return date plus one business day
for a payment plan request, also update the Siebel Debt case Review Date to call return date plus one business day
Assigned To: ENTERPRISE_Q
Status: Information pending
if you are FC Firmer and Legal Recovery, go to Escalated activities.

Second attempt:

issue Contact us letter
Opens in a new window
 (NAT 74951.500845
This link will download a file
)

add a note
Opens in a new window
 including a list of the specific information the taxpayer needs to provide

update the Siebel activity to Call Back Attempts: 2
go to update systems for payment plan below.



Correspondence from taxpayer/authorised contact - first attempt

	

Where outbound phone contact is unsuccessful, including message left or unable to call due to outside hours of contact
Opens in a new window
, and the original request was from Online services for business or Online service for agents:

send a reply portal message
Opens in a new window
 to the taxpayer/authorised contact stating what they need to provide and the timeframe. The timeframe is generally 2 business days, consider taxpayer or agent circumstance e.g. allow for agent leave when advised

add a note
Opens in a new window
 and include a list of the specific information the taxpayer must provide

update the Siebel activity as follows

Call Back Attempt: 1

Review Date: 
call return date plus one business day
for a payment plan request, update the Siebel Debt case Review Date to call return date plus one business day

Status: Information pending

Assigned To: ENTERPRISE_Q
if you are FC Firmer and Legal Recovery, go to Escalated activities.



Correspondence from taxpayer/authorised contact - second attempt

	

If a previous portal message has been sent, this is not considered a successful contact with the taxpayer. 

Make outbound phone attempts on all available numbers for the taxpayer, before sending a final portal message and closing the activity.

For requests from Online services for business or Online services for agents:

send an unstructured mail message, advising

our contact attempts have been unsuccessful and request the taxpayer to call us on

13 11 42, or

the appropriate contact number

the contact hours are from 8.00am to 6.00pm, Monday to Friday.

update the Siebel activity as follows

Call Back Attempts: 2

if a payment plan request is

included, go to update systems for payment plan below
not included, select Status: Done.

For requests from other sources, such as white mail, fax, email, internal, inbound phone escalation:

issue Contact us letter
Opens in a new window
 (NAT 74951.500845
This link will download a file
)

add a note
Opens in a new window
 including a list of the specific information the taxpayer needs to provide

if a payment plan request is

included, go to update systems for payment plan below
not included, select Status: Done.



Correspondence from an unauthorised person

	

Contact a primary or authorised contact, complete PORO and confirm if the correspondence should be actioned.

If you are unable to contact the primary or authorised contact, issue an Adv-unauthorised enquirer letter as follows:

open Microsoft Word

select

eLetters

Show Picklist
FRM - Frontline Resource Management
General
Adv-Unauthorised enquirer (70219.5821).

Or

Reply via unstructured mail message
Opens in a new window
 and state:

We are unable to action your request as you are not authorised to act on this taxpayer's behalf.

Add a note
Opens in a new window
 and include the reason why the request cannot be actioned.

Update the Siebel activity as follows:

PORO Indicator: Failed

Status: Done.




No phone number on the correspondence or ATO systems

	

Issue Contact us letter
Opens in a new window
 (NAT 74951.500845
This link will download a file
).

Add a note
Opens in a new window
 and include a list of the specific information the taxpayer needs to provide.

If a payment plan request is:

included, go to Update systems for payment plan below.

not included, update the Siebel activity Status to Done.

Update systems for payment plan

If contact is unsuccessful for a payment plan request, update systems per the table below.

System
	Action/Update

Siebel activity	

Capability: Debt and Lodgment

Category: DEBT - GENERAL

Type: Payment Arrangements

Note: add a note
Opens in a new window
 using the Pymt plan no decision template in the Notes fly out tab. 

Finalisation Code: as appropriate

PORO Indicator: update appropriately

Case Id/Project Id: if there is an active debt case in Siebel, copy and paste the Case ID

Status: Done.




All Siebel debt cases

	

Project: do not update

Project ID: do not update

Next Review Date: allow 7 calendar days plus one business day.

Finalise any open/active case activities.




RMS (Receivable Management System) debt case where the last action is:

PIT garnishee issued

Verbal Firmer Action Warning

Issue Firmer Action Warning

Firmer Action Warning Issued

	

Only update the Review Date to 7 calendar days plus one business day.

Escalated activities (FC Firmer and Legal Recovery only)

To enable iWD to redeliver the Siebel activity for the original operative to make a further attempt, update as follows:

if a service request does not exist, create a service request
Opens in a new window

update
Opens in a new window
 the Central Co-ordinator field

Review Date: As appropriate

Status: Information Pending

Assigned To: ENTERPRISE_Q.

 
-------



























